
                               1 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 12, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Noriega link suggested in arrest of 62 illegal aliens

BYLINE: Wendi Warner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 259 words


Federal agents Monday exposed a purported $ 200 million alien-smuggling ring
linked to former Panamian leader Manuel Noriega.

Sixty-two Chinese citizens, arrested upon arrival Saturday and Monday at the
Fairhope, Ala., airport, were charged with being illegal aliens.

''There's a real strong possibility'' Noriega or his lieutenants were involved
in the scheme, which planned to bring 35,000 Chinese into the USA from Panama,
said U.S. Customs agent Gary Small of Mobile, Ala.

Immigration officials said last week that tens of thousands of immigrants had
paid Noriega millions of dollars to use his nation as an illegal gateway to the
USA and Canada.

Reputed smuggling ringleader Alfonso Mock-Castillo and associate Rosana Butcher
were also arrested Monday. Mock had negotiated with undercover customs agents
for the smugglers to be brought in, Small said.

He said the flights were believed the operation's first into Alabama, but said
smugglers of all types consider south Alabama ''a more laid-back, relaxed
place'' than entry points such as Miami.

The Chinese apparently paid $ 10,000 to leave Panama, and family members in the
USA were extorted, Small said. He said that payment of $ 20,000 to $ 30,000 was
a ''conservative'' estimate.

They face hearings at El Paso's Immigration and Naturalization Service detention
center, where most were held.

With ''the political situation in China, I'm sure they'll claim political
asylum,'' Small said.

He said Customs is fighting to crack such schemes. ''These people are being
exploited.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                               2 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 28, 1989, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

'Red-eye' flew aliens L.A.- N.Y.

BYLINE: Steve Marshall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 227 words


''This may be part of a massive alien smuggling operation,'' says Thomas
Fischer, Atlanta district director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. He says the INS will now ''target'' the flights.

The bust came about through tips from passengers and Eastern employees who
thought an unusual number of Hispanics were on the flight.

Investigators believe illegal aliens were using the same flight for the past 30
days, says the INS' Tom Thomas.

Tickets cost between $ 358 and $ 433, but some of those arrested paid smugglers
up to $ 4,000, Thomas says.

''We don't know if that was to get into the country ... (or) to get set up in
New York,'' Thomas says. He adds the package could have included living
arrangements, phony documents and a job.

One of the arrested, Juan De La Cruz-Rodriguez, 34, says he wanted to make money
to send to his wife and three sons in the Dominican Republic.

He told The Atlanta Journal that a smuggler in Mexico helped him and about a
dozen others cross the border, then arranged to have them transported by truck
to Los Angeles.

The suspected aliens taken off Monday's flight included 39 from Mexico, 22 from
Guatemala, 13 from the Dominican Republic, three from El Salvador and one each
from Honduras and Ecuador.

Thomas says they'll be transferred to INS facilities in Florida and Texas for
deportation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                               3 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 22, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Illegal workers snap up fake IDs

BYLINE: Jim Pfiffer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 314 words


Illegal immigration in the Southwest is on the rise - three years after Congress
halted the hiring of undocumented workers, immigration officials said Wednesday.

The main culprit: readily available fake identification.

Officials have arrested 801,937 illegal immigrants on the Southwest border in
the past 10 months, up 30 percent from the same period in the previous year,
said Verne Jervis of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

''The word is out that it's easy to get work in the U.S. by buying the right
fake documents from vendors on the border area. It's become a cottage
industry,'' said Richard Day, chief counsel for Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo.

Simpson co-sponsored a 1986 bill that made it illegal for employers to hire
undocumented workers. The bill reduced the number of illegal immigrants until
last May, when the trend began reversing, Jervis said.

The past three months have seen some of the highest increases in arrests, the
INS said. December was up 58.3 percent; January, 39.6 percent; February, 57.3
percent.

The law cut the flow of illegal immigrants because they believed they could no
longer get jobs in the USA, Day said.

But many, watching for weaknesses in the new law, found that fake documents
could get them jobs, Day said.

''If they get caught, it's no big deal. They get a bus ride back and come back
the next night.''

A common procedure is to use a fake Social Security card or birth certificate to
get a legitimate driver's license.

The Bush administration is studying the document verification system to see how
it can be improved, Day said.

He said the problem could be resolved by requiring immigrants to get a
nationally recognized work authorization card on counterfeit-resistant paper.

''I'm not talking about an ID card that you have to carry around on the street.
You would just use it when you're hired,'' Day said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                               4 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 10, 1992, Monday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. steps up security along Mexico border

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 593 words


U.S. security along the Mexican border will be increased and enforcement of
immigration laws stepped up to deal with an unexpected record year of illegal
immigration, Attorney General William Barr announced Sunday. The plan:

- 300 new officers to interdict illegal immigrants and drugs.

- 200 new Immigration and Naturalization Service investigators - 150 to locate
and deport criminal aliens, and 50 to find employers hiring illegal workers.

- New border security - lighting, sensors and patrol vehicles.

To speed lawful immigration - there's a backlog of 1 million applications - Barr
will keep offices open later, add 250 temporary workers and streamline the
process.

SEWAGE SPILL: Partly treated sewage spewing from a broken underwater pipe kept
bacteria levels dangerously high along a 20-mile stretch of the Pacific coast
from Ocean Beach, Calif., to the Mexico border. Flow rate: 180 million gallons a
day. Health officials quarantined fish and other marine life extending out three
miles from shore. Federal and state authorities provided $ 10 million for
repairs.

PROBATION REPORT: The Justice Department, in its first study of recidivism among
probationary felons, found 43% were arrested on new felony charges within three
years. Studied: 12,370 felons on probation in 1986 in 17 states. The report
found judges released 21% of felons deemed unqualified. That group was twice as
likely to have probation revoked as those recommended for probation.

RIGHT TO DIE: Jack Kevorkian, dubbed ''Dr. Death'' for his suicide machine, said
he's counseling four patients who want to end their lives, even though he's
charged with murder in the deaths of two women. Kevorkian, 63, of Royal Oak,
Mich., told The Detroit News most of the four patients aren't terminally ill. He
also said he would obey a judge's order not to help in suicides while the
charges are pending.

AIRPORT SITE: Illinois and Indiana officials meet today to pick a site for a
third Chicago-area airport. Five sites are in contention, but sites near Chicago
and in nearby Gary, Ind., are the likeliest choices. O'Hare and Midway airports
are predicted by 2005 to handle about twice current traffic.

ALSO SUNDAY ...

- GOTTI'S WIFE: Victoria Gotti, wife of reputed Mafia boss John Gotti, told the
New York Daily News she doesn't know what her husband of 31 years does for a
living. ''I didn't ask him for a resume when I fell in love,'' she said. His
federal racketeering trial continues today in New York.

- GOLDWATER WED: Former senator Barry Goldwater, 83, married Phoenix health care
executive Susan Shaffer Wechsler, 51, in Scottsdale, Ariz.

- EMERGENCY LANDING: USAir Flight 1688, a Boeing 727 carrying 158 passengers to
Philadelphia, returned to San Juan, Puerto Rico, because of a malfunction that
kept the left landing gear from deploying. Sparks flew as the left wing hit the
runway but no one was hurt.

Slingshot maneuver for space probe

Ulysses is headed toward previously unexplored polar regions of the sun. The
space probe, launched from Discovery on Oct. 6, 1990, made its closest pass to
Jupiter - 233,000 miles - at 7: 01 a.m EST Saturday. Ulysses, using the giant
planet's gravity as a slingshot to hurl it toward the sun, will chart the sun's
south pole in 1994 and north pole in 1995. ''A major hurdle has been crossed,''
said NASA's Jurrie Vanderwoude at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena,
Calif. ''Now most of the risks are over.''

Contributing: James Harney, Robert Davis, Jack Williams and Kevin Johnson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; b/w, Sam Ward, USA TODAY, Source: NASA (Diagram); PHOTO; b/w,
AP; PHOTO; b/w, Keith Williams, The (Louisville) Courier-Journal

CUTLINE: BARR: To hire 200 INS workers CUTLINE: MEMORIAL SERVICE: The family of
Master Sgt. John Medley grieves during services in Louisville for him and four
other Kentucky Air National Guard members killed Thursday when their Lockheed
C-130 cargo plane crashed in Evansville, Ind. Funerals also were held in
Evansville for three of the 11 civilians who died. Eight victims remained
hospitalized. Cockpit tapes are being analyzed.

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               5 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 11, 1992, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Holes punched in border plan // Won't slow illegal flow, critics say

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 692 words

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO, Calif.


Immigration lawyer Enrique Arevalo hasn't forgotten that the 1986 immigration
reform act promised to stem the flow of illegal immigrants.

''It didn't do a thing,'' says Arevalo, head of the Mexican-American Immigrant
Lawyers Association.

So it's no wonder that Arevalo and other immigration experts are greeting the
latest effort to stop the surge of illegal immigrants with much skepticism and
some anger.

U.S. Attorney General William Barr said Sunday he will add 300 Border Patrol
agents along the U.S.-Mexican border - most of them in California. He also plans
to hire 200 Immigration and Naturalization Service investigators to crack down
on crimes by illegals.

Fifty of the new INS workers will investigate employers who hire illegal
immigrants. A new National Criminal Alien Tracking Center will keep tabs on
immigrants arrested for crimes in the USA. Another 690 new INS workers will deal
with legal immigrants at border checkpoints and district offices.

''As Americans we must always remember that immigration helped make this country
great,'' Barr said. ''But as we welcome people in the front door ... we see
people crashing through the back door and the back window, violating our laws,
flouting our sovereignty and ignoring our process.''

Says Bernie Wolfsdorf, chairman of the American Immigration Lawyers Association
for Southern California: ''You put 300 more officers on a border but these
people are so determined ... they'll deport them and they'll come straight on
back. It's a joke.''

Critics also say the plan will allow INS officers to enter businesses and
question workers indiscriminately, and could force employers to discriminate
against potential hires. They say it might also prevent illegal immigrants from
reporting crimes for fear that local law enforcement is working too closely with
the INS.

''Here we have the United States demanding cheap, exploitable labor. They need
them. They employ them,'' says Roberto Martinez of the American Friends Service
Committee, a human rights group. ''They're using immigrants as a scapegoat for
economic and crime problems.''

Says Wolfsdorf: ''We're talking about picking cotton and picking fruit, and you
still don't see Americans lining up for those jobs.''

Martinez says it's ironic that the latest crackdown comes in the midst of
U.S.-Mexican free trade negotiations.

It also comes less than a week after the U.S. Border Patrol here - where 50% of
all arrests along the southern border are made - unveiled a controversial plan
to add up to 30 armed agents and close two lanes of the four-lane Interstate 5
just north of the border.

The move was aimed at a new disturbing tactic by immigrants: Running the border
in groups of up to 100, straight into freeway traffic.

''It was a mad chaos,'' says David O'Brien, a volunteer with California
Missionaries, which raises money for Mexican orphans near the border. ''They
would crash the border and then run down the center divider, smiling and
laughing.''

No one was hurt during the latest dashes, but in five years, 94 illegal
immigrants were accidentally killed on the freeway and 38 others died near the
San Onofre checkpoint, 66 miles north of the border.

But the border patrol indefinitely dropped its plan - which was expected to jam
the freeway and cause long delays at the border - after the Mexican government
promised to crack down on its side.

Under Barr's plan, the 780 agents who now work the San Diego sector - where an
average of 1,500 illegal immigrants are nabbed each day - could also get some
extra help: new equipment, including lighting and motion sensors, and new Border
Patrol vehicles. A 14-mile steel fence already is under construction.

''The only thing missing now is putting up concertina wires, mine fields and
guard towers,'' says Martinez. ''They're looking for ... a war zone.''

Says Arevalo: ''As long as there's a disparity between the economy of the U.S.
and the rest of the world, there's going to be people willing to come to this
country, legally or illegally. It's an economic phenomena that we cannot get
away from.''

Contributing: Sally Ann Stewart and Melanie Neff

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; b/w, USA TODAY (Map, Calif.); GRAPHIC; b/w, Marcy E.  Mullins,
USA TODAY (Bar graph); PHOTO; b/w, Dave Gatley, Los Angeles Times via AP; PHOTO;
b/w, Andy Clark, Reuters

CUTLINE: CROSS-BORDER RUN: Mexicans cross the border by running into Interstate
5 into San Ysidro, Calif. Patrol agents have not made any arrests for fear of
causing accidents. CUTLINE: BARR: 'Immigration helped make this country great,'
attorney general says.

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               6 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 20, 1991, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Repeal of key part of immigration act sought

BYLINE: Judi Hasson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 321 words


Conservatives and liberals join forces today in a bid to repeal a law that fines
employers for hiring illegal immigrants.

Critics say the law - a key part of the Immigration Reform Act of 1986 - has
failed to curtail illegal immigration and increased job bias against Hispanics
and Asians.

''It's been a miserable failure,'' says conservative Sen. Orrin Hatch, R- Utah,
who along with liberal Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., introduces legislation
today to repeal it.

Kennedy adds: ''The sanctions have been only marginally effective in curbing
illegal immigration, but they've become an insidious new source of job
discrimination''

Rep. Edward Roybal, D-Calif., who's introducing a companion House bill, also
says employer sanctions have ''backfired.''

He acknowledges they will be tough to repeal because many lawmakers believe
sanctions limit illegal immigration, even as ''many more people are coming
across the border than we had in 1986 and 1987.''

Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., a key sponsor of the immigration law, warns that
without employer sanctions, ''the floodgates would open'' to illegal immigrants.

The sanctions threaten employers with fines from $ 250 to $ 1,000 for each
illegal worker they hired.

''Employers are damned if they hire and damned if they fire,'' says Jill
Scheldrup, spokeswoman for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which also seeks
repeal.

A General Accounting Office survey last year found 461,000 employers who
acknowledged discriminating against potential employees because of national
original.

An additional 430,000 employers said they did not hire ''foreign-appearing or
foreign-sounding'' applicants.

''Studies have shown that if a Latino or Asian calls up for a job, it's not
available because employers don't want to deal with them,'' says Cecilia Munoz
of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights group. ''It has
become a practical business decision.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Eileen Blass, USA TODAY

CUTLINE: ROYBAL: Says sanctions will be difficult to repeal

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                               7 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 1, 1991, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Hypocrisy on the border

BYLINE: Diane Culbertson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 424 words


Five years ago, this country was caught up in hysteria over the so-called
''invasion'' of illegal immigrants. These foreigners - read ''Mexicans'' - were
streaming over our southern border and, we were told, taking jobs from
God-fearing U.S. citizens - read ''whites.''

So our esteemed lawmakers passed the Immigration Reform and Control Act. As it
turns out, it did neither.

The General Accounting Office reported recently that the most odious provision
of the act, employer sanctions, accomplished exactly what many of us feared it
would. Employers would refuse to hire brown-skinned, brown-eyed people with
''foreign'' names.

The law turned employers into cops. Those who knowingly hired illegal immigrants
- for the most part for hot, dirty service or stoop-labor jobs that no one else
wanted - could receive heavy fines or jail time.

As a result, the GAO reported, 19% of U.S. employers discriminate against job
applicants who look or sound foreign.

In addition, filing all the paperwork required by the law has cost small
businesses $ 685 million. Other small businesses are booming, though, producing
fake documents.

To top it off, Border Patrol agents have spent so much time enforcing the
employer sanctions that they can't work the border: Illegal immigration levels
are virtually unchanged from pre-law days.

Thankfully, a bipartisan group of lawmakers, led by several from the West, will
try to pull the plug this year on the sanctions.

But that's not the only news on immigration policy. Another law goes into effect
today that will grant citizenship after five years to those entering the country
with a million bucks to invest in businesses here.

The idea - or the wishful thinking - is that wealthy foreigners, especially
those from Hong Kong who get the shakes when they think about being turned over
to the kindly rulers of China in a few years, will flood into the good ol' USA,
bringing money and jobs.

Well, good luck to 'em. But the hypocrisy of our immigration policy reeks.

Multitudes from Mexico pay ''coyotes'' to lead them on death marches across the
southwestern desert or to stack them in airless trucks and vans to be smuggled
across the border. They run the risk of being beaten, robbed, raped or even
murdered.

On the other hand, wealthy foreigners who have a million in cool cash are
welcomed with open arms and promises of citizenship for themselves and their
families.

Apparently, it's OK to have non-white skin, dark eyes and a foreign- sounding
name - if you've also got the green stuff.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; MY VIEW; Diane Culbertson is operations director on the USA
TODAY Editorial Board.

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                               8 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 21, 1989, Friday, FINAL EDITION

120 illegal immigrants are deported

BYLINE: Julie Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 280 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, Texas


Illegal immigrants, 120 Central Americans, boarded a plane for El Salvador
Thursday - the latest group to be deported under a get-tough federal immigration
policy.

They were among 1,427 Central Americans sent home by immigration officials in
two months in an effort to stop the flood of 60,000 refugees who have come
across the Mexican border since last summer.

''These uninvited guests to the United States are being returned home,'' says
Jerry Sewell, Immigration and Naturalization Service district director. ''The
plan to remedy this problem is working.''

Some of those sent home Thursday were afraid.

''We have war. It will be a struggle for me to raise my family,'' said Jose
Ramirez Umana, 40, a Salvadoran. ''I feel sad and angry.''

Chased from their homelands by political and economic instability, asylum
applicants had poured into the USA until February.

Then the INS altered its policy, no longer letting applicants travel within the
USA while applications are considered.

Applicants now get an immediate ruling. Those rejected go to a detention center
and can be deported after hearings.

Some of those leaving Thursday said that getting caught was just bad luck.

''I feel happy because I am going to see my family. But I feel sad to leave,''
said Jesus Ramirez Calder, 28, of Guatemala, in the USA only 15 days.

TEXT OF GRAPHIC Thousands seek asylum Nationalities of people entering USA to
seek political asylum, Sept. 1988-Feb. 1989 Percentage of applicants
El Salvador   33.0%
Nicaragua     33.5%
Other         10.7%
Honduras       6.9%
Guatemala     15.9%

Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, Rod Little, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service (graph, pie chart)

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                               9 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     January 3, 1992, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Immigration fast becoming issue for '92

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 453 words


The USA's melting pot tradition is becoming a potent political issue.

Candidates are testing the sensitive topic of immigration as a ''wedge'' to get
the attention of voters who want someone to blame for money woes:

- Pat Buchanan, a conservative challenging President Bush, has called for a
fence at the U.S.-Mexico border to keep illegal immigrants out.

- Former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke hopes to exploit anger over illegal
immigration in states such as Texas and Florida, where he said last week that if
he's elected, ''there won't be any Haitians setting foot on American soil.''

- Bush has blocked entry of Haitians who've fled here since the September coup
and wants them forcibly repatriated.

- California Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, has said his money-strapped state
can't afford to support growing numbers of benefit recipients, many of them
immigrants.

Civil rights groups have talked about how to counter attacks on legal and
illegal immigration in the 1992 campaign.

''I'm alarmed,'' said Raul Yzaguirre of the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic rights group.

''It's an outlet for people's racism, and it's more prevalent when you have
economic distress. People are looking for scapegoats.''

In the 1980s, about 8.5 million people were admitted legally to the USA - almost
double the 1970s total - and hundreds of thousands more came illegally.

George Borjas, a University of California-San Diego economist, said it's a myth
that newcomers take jobs away from citizens, but it's valid to conclude newer
immigrants are less educated and more likely to end up on unemployment and
welfare rolls.

''Given the fact the number of immigrants in the next decade will be our highest
level ever, it's not a silly argument to have a political debate over
immigration,'' he said.

Peter Schuck, a Yale Law School professor and immigration expert, said
''nativism'' surfaces when times are tough.

''There's a natural impulse in people to take care of their own first and to
marginalize strangers, especially those who have come illegally,'' Schuck said.
''I don't think it's racism. It's fear and anxiety.''

In states like California, Texas and Florida, states that also have lots of
convention delegates and electoral votes, immigration policy can be a make-
or-break issue.

''No candidate can escape discussing that issue and their feelings,'' said Van
Poole, Florida GOP chairman, but candidates must be careful not to position
themselves as ''complete isolationists.''

Duane Garrett, a California Democratic strategist, said there's a risk of ''real
backlash ... because California is truly a state of immigrants'' - immigrants
who are becoming a powerful voting bloc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; b/w, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service (Line graph)

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              10 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 30, 1992, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Agents accused of targeting youngsters

BYLINE: Anne Koonce

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


The fear of that day still wakes Nancy Cortez in the night, screaming.

On Feb. 12, Border Patrol agents in an unmarked car arrested the 14-year- old
and her 18-year-old sister, Kenia, as they were waiting for a public bus to take
them to school.

''I told them that I am a U.S. citizen, but they didn't believe me,'' Nancy
says. ''They told me they would send me to California (where she was born) and
they would send my sister to Nogales,'' Mexico.

The girls were released to their parents late in the day. But school officials
are accusing immigration authorities of arresting kids at bus stops and
elsewhere, then grilling them for information on their families, who may be in
the country illegally. The threat if the children don't cooperate: deportation.

Kenia, an excellent student with hopes for a computer career, faces a
deportation hearing today. She doesn't have residency papers, even though her
parents have work permits.

''I am very scared,'' Kenia says. ''If I go back to Mexico, school is over.''

Officials deny any wrongdoing, although the Border Patrol is conducting its own
probe into such cases and has asked for an inquiry by the Inspector General's
office.

But Sylvia Long, director of the migrant-education program of the Phoenix Union
High School District, says her office has had at least 10 similar complaints
this year.

''This is affecting how we do our jobs as educators. I've had parents call me to
ask if it is safe to send their kids to school. I am sure that some students are
staying away because they are afraid they will be picked up.''

Many children have parents who are legally in the United States to work, but who
may not realize they need to apply for legal status for their children,
officials say.

A migrant-worker's organization is collecting information about similar cases:

- A 17-year-old boy who was arrested while walking to high school. He refused to
give information on his family and was sent to Nogales that night. He claims
agents threatened ''to knock my teeth out.''

- An 11-year-old girl who was taken into custody, along with two older girls.
The 11-year-old's grandmother, tipped by relatives that the Border Patrol was
coming, hid the rest of the family and let herself be arrested. The woman and
girl were deported to Nogales but returned within a few days.

- A 17-year-old boy who tried to run from arresting officers and says he was hit
with a strap while in a detention cell. He was deported, then came back.

''We don't target children,'' says Ed Pyeatt, assistant chief patrol agent for
the patrol's Tucson sector, which includes Phoenix. ''Sure, we've caught some
kids. ... But we have laws designed to protect those children and we follow
them.''

Pyeatt said 1,263 people were arrested in Phoenix from January through March,
and only 178 were children. ''We don't have to target children to find people.''

The agent says his office has checked into the Cortez case, and says: ''The
information we have is different from what we read in the newspaper.'' It's
normal to stop people on the street and at bus stops, he says. ''That's where
agents find illegal residents.''

The Cortez girls are staying close to home now. Friends drive them to school,
but they don't feel safe. Nancy says she's seen the Border Patrol car near
campus. ''I know that car, '' she says. ''It's the same men.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Jeff Kida, AP

CUTLINE: IN PHOENIX: Nancy Cortez, left, and her sister, Kenia, were threatened
with deportation.

ALONG THE U.S.-MEXICAN BORDER

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              11 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 30, 1992, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Risking 'no man's land' // Economic woes drive illegals across border

BYLINE: Juan J. Walte

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 973 words

DATELINE: JUAREZ, Mexico


More and more immigrants wander across this porous, 2,000-mile long border every
day. They swim, walk, run, even drive across the hot, dusty ''no man's land''
that separates Mexico from the USA.

As always, the economics of poverty fuels the hard, often dangerous trip. These
illegal immigrants - mostly Mexicans, some Central Americans - come to find
work, to shop, to find a home and a new life.

And six years after the passage of a 1986 law intended to halt the flow of
illegal immigrants from Mexico and Central America, the number is sharply on the
rise.

''We are very much back to the situation where the border is pretty open and
people are still coming over,'' said UCLA's Raymund Paredes, an expert on
U.S.-Mexican border issues.

The 1986 Immigration Reform Act, the subject of much controversy and political
debate while making its way through Congress, made it easier for 3.1 million
illegal immigrants already in the United States to become legal, and tougher for
those wanting to enter the USA.

In addition, the measure, known as the Simpson-Mazzoli bill, for the first time
provided for penalties and fines against employers who knowingly hired illegal
immigrants.

U.S. immigration records show that, after a peak of nearly 1.76 million
apprehensions in 1986, the number of people caught crossing the border declined
to 954,000 in 1989. But 1991 apprehensions climbed to 1.13 million people.

This year, officials and experts predict, the number will likely surpass the
1986 record. Up and down the U.S.-Mexican border, from Brownsville, Texas, to
San Diego, illegal immigration is on the rise.

In many cases, those crossing do so every day. While most Americans think of
illegals as coming to live in the USA, the vast majority - 98% say authorities -
are regular day trippers who work and shop on the U.S. side but live in Mexico.

 Just after sunrise, five Mexicans, including one young woman, climb through a
man-size hole in the fence that rises above the northern bank of the Rio Grande
about two miles down river from El Paso's center. Jose Luis Ortega, the oldest
in the group, said he's a crossing veteran.

He used to work in Denver and other places in Colorado as a waiter and hopes to
find similar work in an El Paso restaurant. He has two brothers who live in
Phoenix.

Alejandra Carmona went to El Paso to see her mother-in-law. Jose Luis Hernandez
said he has a job at a steel foundry in the El Paso area. With him is Manny
Guzman, who works in an upholstery job. Both said their jobs are steady and they
cross over every day.

Green Border Patrol vans come by every five minutes or so, drive slowly by so
the people working their way through the fence can see them. The Border Patrol's
presence chases the five back to the river bank, but then they just wait a while
and dash into the United States as soon as the vans are out of sight.

What happens if you get caught? They laugh and indicate the odds are heavily in
their favor. ''I've been doing this for three years and have only been caught
six times,'' said Hernandez.

The consequences of capture: Return to Mexico.

Others interviewed at several border crossings here said they went to work for
the day or to look for work. Some will stay in the United States. But most, like
Berta Lopez from Juarez, don't. She went for the day to shop.

She walks briskly after crossing the Rio Grande. She's almost running, in fact,
toward the shopping area along El Paso Street, the area that's become sort of an
open mall with stores selling food, military surplus, clothing, hardware and
electronic goods.

''This is the first time for me,'' said Lopez, referring to her illegal entry.
She looks around furtively to see if any U.S. Border Patrol agents saw her come
in. They probably did, but didn't bother her.

Lopez is searching for clothing and shoes and groceries.

Always there is the lure of the American economy, urging poorer people from the
south.

''The basic pull is economic,'' said Cassie Boothe of the INS. ''Some people
believe that the Free Trade Agreement (with Mexico) will improve the situation,
but that remains to be seen.''

The governments of Mexico and the United States are negotiating a North American
Free Trade Agreement, which will also include Canada. Its final goal: create one
huge market from Hudson Bay to the Yucatan Peninsula to compete with a unified
Europe and the new economic powers in Asia.

 Maria Ofelia Hernandez certainly knows the game of day crossing into the USA.
She's amused rather than angry at the migra, the nickname for the U.S. Border
Patrol.

''I come to visit my daughter and I have been doing this for 20 years, sometimes
as often as three times a week. ... They should know that by now,'' Hernandez
said, minutes after crossing the river and setting foot on U.S. soil.

Every day, just below the main international bridge between the two border
cities, hundreds of men, women and children cross over the narrow, walled-in Rio
Grande - either getting wet by wading across, or staying dry by lying flat on a
board atop a huge innertube.

The men who push or pull the inner tubes across the chest-deep waters are called
lancheros, or boatmen. The whole trip takes three to five minutes and costs $ 1.

As of April 9, the U.S. Border Patrol had arrested 126,043 illegal immigrants in
the Juarez-El Paso area since the 1992 fiscal year began Oct. 1. That's a
sizable jump from the 99,209 illegal immigrants arrested over the same period
during fiscal 1991.

''The economy in Mexico continues to act as a push factor,'' said Doug Mosier,
Border Patrol spokesman in El Paso.

The immigration increase is ''economically driven,'' agreed American University
law professor Rita Simon, an immigration specialist. ''But that's been the story
of all immigrations - and has always been true.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; b/w, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service (Line graph); GRAPHIC; b/w, USA TODAY (Map, Mexico); PHOTOS; b/w, Joel
Salcido (3)

CUTLINE: WAITING: Mexicans watch and wait for U.S. border agents to leave.
CUTLINE: ESCAPE ROUTE: Alejandra Carmona goes to visit her mother-in-law in El
Paso. CUTLINE: TAKING A BREAK: From left, Jose Francisco DeLeon Tapia, Jose Luis
Almeida Hernandez and Julian Almeida Montero read and relax at a home for
migrants.

ALONG THE U.S.-MEXICAN BORDER

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              12 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     January 7, 1991, Monday, FINAL EDITION

PUERTO RICO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 68 words

DATELINE: AGUADILLA


Over 85% of illegal immigrants who entered island through west coast during '90
went undetected, INS official said. 3,757 illegal immigrants - mostly from
Dominican Republic - were repatriated. ... BAYAMON - Mayor Ramon Luis Rivera
said he'll agree to New Progressive Party gubernatorial bid if party's other
possible candidates - Pedro Rosello, Carlos Romero Barcelo - withdraw, thus
avoiding primary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              13 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 8, 1991, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Arrests show immigration problem worsens // After years of decline, rate rises

BYLINE: Bill Nichols

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 667 words

DATELINE: McALLEN, Texas


Twilight has come to the banks of the Rio Grande, and Border Patrol agent Ralph
Soliz is quietly watching shadows creep over a lonely sorghum field.

Or is he? Soliz sees something else - footprints, a trail.

Minutes later, he and partner Joe Escobedo catch three men, question them and
send them home to the Mexican border town of Reynosa.

''They always ask us, 'Why do you do this? You know we need the jobs,' '' says
Escobedo. ''Later tonight, they may jump in the river, and we may catch them
again.''

The officers and the three youths with clothes wadded in a plastic bag play an
old and troubling game of cat and mouse that's heating up again all along the
USA's nearly 2,000-mile southern border.

After several years of decline - many say in response to a ban on hiring illegal
immigrants in the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 - apprehensions of
illegals are edging up to the pre-1986 level of 1.8 million a year.

The easy availability of fake documents for illegals, federal budget woes and
unceasing Mexican poverty are some of the reasons cited.

Critics say the increase proves the hiring ban - which they say causes
discrimination against Hispanics, illegal or not - simply doesn't work.

Regardless of their stand on the volatile issue, many on the border say
something more than the 1986 law is needed.

''No matter what laws you write, people will continue to come here out of
desperation and hopelessness ... when they have nothing else to lose,'' says
Margaret Burkhart, a lawyer for Texas Rural Legal Aid.

Law enforcement sees the problem as a lack of resources to patrol the border,
where illegals can buy fake birth certificates and driver's licenses for $ 50,
making hiring easier.

In McAllen - Soliz and Escobedo's station - Border Patrol chief Silvestre Reyes
has seen the number of apprehensions rise from 61,447 in 1988 to almost 100,000
last year.

''We did not follow through,'' Reyes says of initial gains from the 1986 law.
Congress has ordered large increases in Border Patrol personnel twice since
then, but neglected to provide any additional money.

''No matter how big the teeth are in the law, you've got to have the
personnel,'' Reyes says. ''The law's on the books but, yet, we don't have the
people to enforce it.''

Advocates of tougher border policies agree but say more congressional funding
for the immigration service in tough economic times isn't likely.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform advocates a $ 1 to $ 2 border
crossing fee, which could raise up to $ 1 billion based on the 400 million
people who entered the USA last year via land borders.

''What we need to do is put more concentration on actual deterrent at the border
as well as ... develop a secure identification document,'' says Dave Ray of the
reform federation.

In Congress, pending border control legislation includes a bill by Rep. Bill
Lowery, R-Calif., that calls for better border fences in El Paso and San Diego
and a counterfeit-resistant Social Security card.

But critics say any national identification card would result in discrimination,
as does the ban on hiring illegals.

The ban can't work ''without impinging on human rights,'' says Cecilia Munoz of
the National Council of La Raza. Hispanics ''are being shut out of jobs because
we look like we might be foreigners.''

A bill to repeal the hiring ban, along with a call for added border and labor
law enforcement, is set to be introduced in Congress in September.

But among the weeds and nearly invisible trails along the Rio Grande, where
Soliz and Escobedo patrol nightly, there is fear that legislation may never cope
with a problem born of a simple desire for a better life.

Escobedo, three years on the Border Patrol, is among 11 first-generation
Mexican-American children. His parents tried to swim the river, too, before
immigrating legally 30 years ago.

''Sure, we know how they feel,'' he says of the illegals he must hunt. ''But
this our job. We have to do our job.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS; color, USA TODAY, Source: U.S Immigration and Naturalization
Service (Line graph, Map of Texas); PHOTOS; color, Brad Doherty (3)

CUTLINE: CAUGHT AT THE BORDER: Agent Ralph Soliz frisks a Mexican illegal
apprehended on the border near McAllen, Texas. The Border Patrol would not
release the identities of those apprehended. CUTLINE: ON PATROL: Border Patrol
agents Ralph Soliz, left, and Joe Escobedo search for tracks or trails along the
Rio Grande. CUTLINE: PAPERWORK: Soliz fills out a voluntary return form for an
illegal who just crossed the Rio Grande.

SPECIAL REPORT; BATTLE FOR THE BORDER

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              14 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 8, 1991, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Mexico's crackdown helps U.S.

BYLINE: Bill Nichols

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 163 words


The increasing number of arrests of illegal immigrants isn't the only trend
along the southern border.

The number of non-Mexican illegals, once half the traffic in McAllen, Texas, is
down sharply. U.S. officials say better security in Mexico is a big reason.

McAllen Border Patrol chief Silvestre Reyes says more than 75 nationalities -
mostly Guatemalan, Salvadoran and Nicaraguan - were arrested in his region since
1988.

''Mexico had become a kind of international hub,'' he says.

And what the Border Patrol calls OTMs - other-than-Mexican illegals - causes
greater problems for immigration officers. They take more time to process and
can't be voluntarily returned to an adjacent country. Also, issues of political
asylum often come into play.

Reyes says Mexico cracked down when it was overrun by OTMs who couldn't make it
into the USA.

Mexico is ''a poor country,'' says Reyes. ''Third-country nationals'' create
''additional pressure on the government.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SPECIAL REPORT; BATTLE FOR THE BORDER

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              15 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 24, 1991, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Buchanan would fence out Mexican illegals

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 342 words


If he's elected president, Pat Buchanan said Monday, he'd consider building a
fence at the U.S.-Mexico border to deter illegal immigration.

Buchanan, a conservative commentator who's challenging President Bush for the
1992 GOP presidential nomination, has built his campaign on isolationist
policies. His campaign slogan: ''America First.''

Talking with reporters Monday, he criticized what he called lax enforcement of
immigration laws and said he'd put ''a fence'' along the U.S. border with Mexico
''and you could stop 90% of it.''

Buchanan also would beef up border patrols and assign National Guard units to
summer duty along the border.

''If a country can't secure its borders, it's not even a country anymore,'' he
said.

The slice of the U.S. budget that goes to immigrants, legal and illegal, is
shaping up as a potent political issue.

He also attacked what he called ''multiculturalism.''

Public schools, Buchanan said, are part of an ''assault on America's culture''
for teaching in other languages. On other issues, Buchanan:

- Said he wouldn't deny welfare to single mothers, but recipients ''who are
able-bodied and refuse to work, I don't think should get anything.''

- Advised Bush to demand that Congress reconvene and give it 72 hours to enact
an economic growth package.

- Said he intends to do well in New Hampshire's Feb. 18 primary, then try for a
decisive win in Georgia's GOP primary, which may be held March 3.

''I think I can ignite a real storm across this country which will raise my
level in every single state, rock Mr. Bush back on his heels and maybe, if it
were big enough, carry us through to one or two more victories,'' he said.

A Concord Monitor poll of New Hampshire Republicans out Monday showed Bush
leading Buchanan 58% to 30%.

- Said his biggest liability is his opposition to the Persian Gulf war.
''There's no question, it'll be the toughest thing I'll have to handle.''

- Acknowledged his candidacy is dividing the GOP: ''Of course it's divisive. I'm
trying to dump George Bush.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              16 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 14, 1990, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

CALIFORNIA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 145 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Arrests of undocumented immigrants jumped since December, Border Patrol says.
Better deployment of agents is credited for area's 3-month total of 108,524 - up
to 89% higher than during previous year. ... BARSTOW - 2 men - ages 17, 40 -
were killed in shootout with police Officer Steven Kirby, who stopped their
motor home in alleyway. Kirby - whose bullet-proof vest stopped 2 bullets - was
brought for observation to Barstow Community Hospital. ... SAN FRANCISCO - City
granted permit for Food Not Bombs members to distribute food to homeless at
Civic Center on Tuesdays. Mayor Agnos in '89 called group's food ''gruel not fit
for human consumption.'' ... PALO ALTO - 2-year contract was OK'd by 1,400
Stanford University Medical Center nurses. Pay hikes: 10.5% for less-experienced
nurses, 7% for top-salaried nurses during 1st year; 7% raise for all during 2nd.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              17 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 11, 1990, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Attention shoppers: Canadians crossing

BYLINE: Deeann Glamser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: BLAINE, Wash.


Police Chief Butch Hinchey's headache in this border town isn't drug smuggling
or illegal immigrants. It's the traffic jam from Canadian shoppers.

''About 27 million people come through a year, headed in and out, and we're only
a town of 2,500,'' says Hinchey. ''We've got traffic lineups that block all the
cross streets through town.''

The annual traffic almost equals Canada's population. Shoppers are drawn by
lower prices, because of lower taxes and the Canadian dollar's relatively high
value.

The hottest draw is gasoline. Blaine's 11 service stations have constant lines
for $ 1.09 regular unleaded, half the price of Canada's heavily taxed gasoline.

Canadians also seek groceries, especially farm products, on which the Canadian
government sets high wholesale prices, making milk and cheese as much as 50
percent cheaper in the USA.

Other good buys are linens, cigarettes, beer, leather goods, some clothing,
electronics and furniture. As the free-trade agreement between Canada and the
USA phases out tariffs on products purchased from one another, the traffic is
expected to continue growing.

The almost 9 million cars passing through Blaine's four checkpoints last year
put it ahead of Buffalo, N.Y., as the busiest U.S.-Canadian crossing.

As a result, Rep. Al Swift, D-Wash., has called for assignment of more U.S.
customs and immigration officers to speed traffic across the border.

''We got left in the dust because the main focus has been on the southern
border. That's where the drugs are coming through and all the aliens,'' says
Andy Anderson, a spokesman for Swift.

In addition, a joint U.S.-Canadian task force is looking at road realignments
and other solutions to congestion.

Blaine's biggest border crossing usually has four of eight car lanes closed
because of lack of staff. Anderson says Swift wants at least six lanes staffed
at peak hours.

Canada recently added more border staff, but homeward-bound Canadians still clog
Washington towns in the late afternoon as they wait to clear customs.

Washington merchants worry that long weekend border lines will keep Canadian
shoppers at home.

''We could lose up to a fourth of our business because of the delays,'' says
Gary Shimada, manager of the Bellis Fair mall 15 miles south of Blaine. Almost
half the mall's shoppers on weekends are Canadians.

The flurry of Canadian shoppers is tough on local residents. ''I don't blame the
Canadians for coming down, but it's frustrating because everything is crowded,''
says Birch Bay, Wash., resident Sharon Chandler.

Canadian border businesses, meanwhile, are unhappy. ''When you make your money
in Canada, you should spend it in Canada,'' says tire store owner Neil
Edmondson.

When a Canadian grocer complained this spring about bargain-hunting Canadians
heading south, some residents were outraged.

''He has no right to tell me where to shop,'' says Canadian Norma Grace. ''If I
want to shop in the United States, I bloody well will.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, Deborah Barrington, USA TODAY (Map, Washington state)

TYPE: Statesline

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              18 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 17, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

VOICES/Do you think illegal immigration is a problem?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 357 words


Dianne Anderson, 39
Office manager
Taylors, S.C.

No. Aliens are taking the jobs that nobody else wants. They say the unemployment
rate is high, but in our area, employers complain that they can't get anybody to
fill the jobs that are available. The employer sanctions are unfair because it's
difficult for employers to determine who is legal or illegal.

Mary Tozzi, 41
Business owner
Auburn, N.Y.

Illegal immigration has gotten out of hand. I do feel bad for the immigrants who
come here looking for a better life, but there should be tighter controls on the
number we let in, and employers are the ones who are going to have to do it.
Employer sanctions will have to affect large and small businesses.

Oscar Soliz, 56
District clerk
Corpus Christi, Texas

Overall, illegal immigration is a problem because sooner or later, county
governments will have to pick up the tab for social needs. But the particular
problem I see with sanctions is that a lot of bosses don't want to go through
the hassle of checking I.D. if someone named Gonzales, Garcia or Soliz walks in.

James Reed, 37
School principal
Weiser, Idaho

No. There's a real need for people who want to work in this country and,
oftentimes, the people who want to work are the immigrants. I live in a rural
community where farmers really need people to work. I question whether sanctions
accomplish what they want, or even if they're enforceable.

Bessie Starling, 70
Retired machinist
South Bend, Ind.

I really think we're allowing too many people into the country who are taking
jobs away from us. There should be limits on how many immigrants we let in.
There's no problem getting along with them. Most are good workers. It's just the
problem of having too many. We have enough people here already.
John Bemish, 47
Computer analyst
Phoenix, Ariz.

I look at the problem from the standpoint of the migratory workers. Because they
are cheap labor, they are forced to live under unsanitary conditions, which is
what Cesar Chavez has been fighting against for years. There are a lot of
unscrupulous folks out there who draw upon that labor pool.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w (Dianne Anderson, Taylors, S.C.); PHOTO; b/w (Mary Tozzi,
Auburn, N.Y.); PHOTO; b/w (Oscar Soliz, Corpus Christi, TX); PHOTO; b/w (James
Reed,Weiser, ID); PHOTO; b/w (BassieStarling, South Bend, IN); PHOTO; b/w (John
Bemish,Phoenix, AZ)

TYPE: Opinion; Voices

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              19 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 7, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

ARIZONA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 69 words

DATELINE: TUCSON


Tiff over seizure of taxis suspected of carrying undocumented immigrants has
been resolved. Cabbies - who said status of customers isn't their problem -
agreed to ask passengers if they're in USA legally; Border Patrol agreed to ease
up on cab seizures. ... PHOENIX - Last of 4 new ramps opens today at $ 100
million ''Stack'' I-10, I-17 interchange. It's part of series of freeway
openings planned this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              20 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 23, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Protesters light up border;
Night vigils draw cries of prejudice

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 596 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


At high noon on the banks of the Tijuana River, three men scamper across the
arid ground and make a dash for Interstate 5 - the highway to haven for
thousands of illegal immigrants pouring in from Mexico every day.

''You see them? You see them?'' says Gordon Jones, a retired Navy chief. ''They
just hitch a ride and get somebody to take them north.''

North is Chula Vista, Jones' hometown. Or Imperial Beach, where Ben Seeley can
look out the window of his oceanfront house and see a parade of illegal
immigrants on the beach. Or San Diego, where Muriel Watson sees them everywhere.

The onslaught of illegals has turned these white, non-Hispanic, middle- aged,
middle-class Californians into a band of activists who demonstrate monthly at
the border.

But they've incurred heated criticism from Hispanic-rights groups, who accuse
them of ethnic prejudice.

''They're promoting a xenophobia,'' says Roberto Martinez, a rights activist.
''The worst part of all this is that it's fomenting a lot of hostility against
immigrants.''

Watson, the widow of a Border Patrol pilot, founded a group to shed light -
literally - on the problem.

Last November, Watson and about 1,500 others started a Light Up the Border group
that holds monthly vigils at the border. They arrive at dusk, line up their cars
and point their headlights toward Mexico and the clusters of people waiting for
nightfall to attempt their crossing.

''I never thought I'd ever be an activist,'' says Seeley, 53, a research
analyst. ''My wife is Mexican. Mexicans never bothered me - not until I saw them
breaking laws.''

But some Hispanic-rights organizations are bothered by Light Up the Border and
other groups that link the USA's drug and crime problems to illegal immigration.

Martinez blames the close-the-border movement for recent attacks on migrant
camps by white, non-Hispanic teens: ''They're reflecting the attitudes of the
people.''

Watson says ethnic prejudice has nothing to do with it; she and her followers
support legal immigration, and are concerned about the safety of illegal
immigrants.

''We just want to focus on this terrible situation and get both governments
involved,'' she says. ''This is a symbolic protest that will hopefully get the
nation to focus on the problem. Mexico is putting its economic burden on us.''

Both sides agree the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 has failed to
stop illegals. But they're miles apart on a solution.

Light Up the Border and other groups want stricter border enforcement - more
lights, guards and barriers.

''There are 4,000 illegal entries every night. Forty percent of all illegal
immigrants come through here,'' Watson says. ''Only one-third are caught, and
they try again because nothing is done.''

But until Mexico's economy and the political situations of other nations
improve, enforcement is futile, Hispanic-rights activists say.

''We should look at what our partnership roles should be with other societies,''
says Richard Martinez, a rights activist in Los Angeles.''We have not seen a
coherent, real immigration strategy in this nation.''

Light Up the Border members says there is nothing prejudiced about their demands
for legal immigration, but they're getting nervous about the repercussions.

A neo-Nazi group has expressed support for the campaign. And
counterdemonstrators have become so vocal Watson has put a hold on monthly trips
to the border for fear of violence.

But members are lobbying their legislators.

Says Watson: ''We're going to find out how many people support this come
election time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, Michele D. Thorne, USA TODAY (Map, California); PHOTO; b/w, Sean
M. Haffey, AP (Muriel Watson); PHOTO; b/w, Paul Richards, UPI (National Borders,
Border between San Diego, CA. and Tijuana, Mexico)

CUTLINE: BORDER PATROL: Muriel Watson, an organizer of Light Up the Border,
which seeks to stem the flow of illegal immigrants by aiming auto headlights at
border crossing points. CUTLINE: MARKING TIME: Illegal immigrants wait for night
to cross border in area known as the 'Soccer Field,' near Tijuana.

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              21 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 14, 1990, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Unique warning;
Immigrants' road can lead to death

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 788 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Ken Hart remembers it as the worst night of his life. ''I was just driving
along, maybe a little too fast. I didn't have time to hit the brakes. I just saw
this human being. It turned out there were two of them. I'll never forget that
moment of impact.''

The victims: A 24-year-old Mexican woman and the 3-year-old daughter she was
carrying in her arms - both illegal immigrants trying to avoid the U.S. Border
Patrol checkpoint north of San Diego. Both died.

Interstate 5 in San Diego County - the freedom route for thousands of Mexicans
and Central Americans - is turning into hell's highway.

So far this year, 48 illegal immigrants have been run over on busy interstates
near the border - last-ditch attempts to avoid border guards; 29 of them died.

''It's bad,'' says Capt. Ron Phulps, of the California Highway Patrol. ''And
it's getting worse.''

At highways near the U.S.-Mexican border, 107 illegal immigrants have been
killed since 1985. Further north on I-5, near a U.S. Border Patrol checkpoint,
another 36 were run over and killed since 1987.

Latino rights groups are up in arms. Citizens organizations pushing for stricter
border control are using the casualties to fuel their movements. And local
authorities are desperately trying to stop the carnage.

The California Department of Transportation has designed a new highway sign -
the first of its kind in the USA - cautioning drivers. Several of the signs will
be placed along I-5 this week. ''If the signs get people to slow down to 55, I
would be tickled to death,'' says Jim Larson, of the transportation department.

Public service ads will start airing on San Diego TV and radio stations.
Bilingual index cards detailing the pedestrian problem are being distributed to
motorists entering the country. Changeable message signs will warn motorists
traveling to and from Mexico.

''We don't see any one panacea,'' says Norman Page, a California State
University-Fullerton professor doing a study for the transportation department.
''It has to be a combination of approaches - awareness, caution ... enforced
speed limit.''

Most accidents happen at night on highways where cars travel at speeds of more
than 70 miles per hour.

The illegal immigrants usually wear dark clothes - a good camouflage from the
Border Patrol but an invitation to death on the highway at night.

''Those people are tired and they're desperate,'' says Claudia Smith, of the
California Rural Legal Assistance, which offers free advice to migrants.
''They're going to get through even if it requires running across the road.''

Many of them don't even realize the risk.  ''They have no idea of the sheer
velocity of cars here,'' says CHP Captain Jim Anderson.

Authorities even have stopped pursuing illegal immigrants on interstate for fear
they'll run out into traffic. The word is out. Now every weekend night, up to
400 congregate on the median of I-5 - a ''safety'' zone from the police. And on
any day - even in broad daylight - small groups of illegals can be spotted
walking north on the median.

Latino rights groups blame the problem on the Border Patrol. They would even
like to see the checkpoint north of San Diego shut down. ''I'm sure they catch
people there,'' says Roberto Martinez, of the The American Friends Service
Committee. ''But is it worth losing lives for?''

But the three-lane checkpoint isn't about to close: 14,000 people were caught
there last month. And there are plans to build a 16-lane checkpoint within three
years.

''We have a job to do. We can't stop doing it,'' says Ted Swofford, of the
Border Patrol. He blames the accidents on ''coyotes,'' or smugglers.

''They stop before the checkpoint and tell them to get out, cross the freeway
and then cross it back north of the checkpoint,'' he says.

The Border Patrol is working with the courts to get stiffer sentences for
smugglers who are caught unloading illegal immigrants on interstates.

No driver has been charged for any of the accidents - even when, like Hart, they
were driving 15 miles over the speed limit. Officials consider them to be
victims, too.

When the illegals are holding hands crossing the road, ''there is no way for a
driver to know which way to swerve,'' says Phulps, who himself came close to
hitting a group of three last week. ''It gave me a sick feeling to my stomach.''

Hart knows the feeling. It's been 10 months since the fatal night when Hart laid
in bed, cried and wrote a letter to the little girl he killed. But it's only
recently that the 33-year-old singer has stopped sleeping with the lights on.

Says Hart: ''It still wakes me up in the middle of the night and scares me
sometimes.''

TEXT OF GRAPHIC
New warning signs along San Diego freeway

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, Keith Carter, USA TODAY (drawing, highway with California

TYPE: Statesline

Accompanying story; Traffic deaths at border; 144

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              22 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 4, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

MISSISSIPPI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 75 words

DATELINE: JACKSON


12-day State Fair opened with 65 rides, numerous shows, contests. Officials
expect annual fair will bring in $ 1 million; record 573,000 people attended
last year. ... MERIDIAN - 6 suspected illegal immigrants were released by
Lauderdale County sheriff's deputies because federal agents were not available
to take custody, officials said. Border Patrol agents decided it was too far to
travel here from Biloxi office to take suspects into custody.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              23 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 17, 1989, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Face-off: Making room for refugees;
Admitting refugees enriches the USA

BYLINE: Chuck Bowden, Guest columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 299 words


In fact, sometimes when speaking of Estados Unidos, the United States, they say
estamos unidos, we are united.

We call them illegal aliens. It would be easy to make a case against them - they
are uneducated, they have not been trained up on American democracy, they are
engaged in a criminal activity (growing dope for us), and they are, literally,
dirt poor.

They are also willing to work from dawn to dusk. They have a strong hunger to
better their lives. Basically, they're a lot like our parents or grandparents or
great-grandparents. This nation was not built with the offspring of European
nobles.

Now, as the new wave of immigration hits our shores, many of us panic - witness
the witless campaign for English as the official language, as if the USA had any
other language than money - and say there is no more room. That may be true.

At the end of World War II, we had about 130 million people and, to my taste,
there was no more room then. But this country has not been created by interior
decorators. It is a living thing and it lives and breathes by accepting new
blood, generally rough blood. We take what others do not want. That's how we all
got here.

We have not had open borders and never will - that's a bogus issue. But we
cannot thrive by deciding, as President Reagan did last week, that white Soviets
are better than yellow Asians. Or that poor Salvadorans go to a Texas lockup
while educated Europeans go to our cocktail parties.

This country has always been a poker game. And the house has generally let
anyone sit at the table as long as they didn't complain about the way we cut the
cards. We have not demanded a pedigree if the player was willing to bet his life
on the game. Let's not change the house rules now. We could ruin the best game
in town.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w (Chuck Bowden)

TYPE: Opinion

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              24 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 26, 1989, Thursday, FIRST EDITION

Drug fighters pitch border ditch

BYLINE: Bob Ross; Bill Nichols

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 217 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


More than 1,500 vehicles have crossed illegally in the stretch of flat desert at
Otay Mesa since July 1, officials say.

''This will force smugglers' vehicles to use an area that is not geographically
acceptable to them and make us better able to control those areas,'' said Dale
Cozart, chief Border Patrol agent.

Officials say the ditch, estimated to cost about $ 1.5 million, is not intended
to stop illegal immigrants from walking across the border.

Criticism came quickly:

- The ditch is ''lightweight tinkering that simply exacerbates problems between
the two countries,'' says Arnold Torres of the League of United Latin American
Citizens.

- ''I think it's a waste of money,'' says Bob Fish, 39, a plumbing foreman
working at the border. ''If I couldn't figure a way to get something across a
15-foot-wide ditch, I ought to be in an old folks home.''

- Patrick Burns, of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, calls the
idea ''a minor Band-Aid on one small portion of the great dilemma of how to
secure... the border.''

FAIR issues a report today in Washington with suggestions for border security:

- Construction of fences along about 50 miles of the southern border.

- A $ 2 border crossing fee to finance more programs to prevent smuggling and
illegal immigration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, Shelley Arps, USA TODAY (Map, California)

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              25 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 26, 1989, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Ditch pitch: Stop drugs, illegals

BYLINE: Bob Ross; Bill Nichols

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 231 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


More than 1,500 vehicles have crossed there illegally since July 1, officials
say.

''This will force smugglers' vehicles to use an area that is not geographically
acceptable to them and make us better able to control those areas,'' said Dale
Cozart, chief Border Patrol agent.

Associate Attorney General Francis Keating said the ditch, which he termed ''our
buried Berlin Wall,'' will discourage smugglers from driving across the border.
Officials say the ditch, estimated to cost $ 1.5 million, is not intended to
stop illegal immigrants from walking into the USA.

Criticism came quickly:

- The ditch is ''lightweight tinkering that simply exacerbates problems between
the two countries,'' says Arnold Torres of the League of United Latin American
Citizens.

- ''I think it's a waste of money,'' says Bob Fish, 39, a plumbing foreman
working at the border. ''If I couldn't figure a way to get something across a
15-foot-wide ditch, I ought to be in an old folks home.''

- Patrick Burns, of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, calls the
idea ''a minor Band-Aid on one small portion of the great dilemma of how to
secure ... the border.''

FAIR issues a report today with border security goals:

- Construction of fences along about 50 miles of the southern border.

- A $ 2 border crossing fee to finance programs to prevent smuggling, illegal
immigration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, Shelley Arps, USA TODAY (Map, California)

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              26 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 30, 1989, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Face-off: Stopping illegal immigration;
Tougher barriers won't stop immigrants

BYLINE: Primitivo Rodriguez, Guest columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 302 words


The proposed four-mile ditch near San Diego has been variously defended as a
drainage canal which will be welcomed by Mexico, as a way to stop drug smugglers
and as a deterrent to illegal immigration.

It is doubtful that the first rationale will hold much water; ditches between
neighbors are not friendly.

Stopping drugs? Only a small percentage of drug traffic enters the USA by land.
A negligible amount comes across at the proposed ditch site. In any case,
President Bush has announced a drug war focusing on curtailing demand rather
than ''sealing the borders.''

This whitewashed ditch is meant to be a barrier for human beings. But it will
not be an effective one. A 1,000-mile river divides Texas from Mexico. Yet every
day, undocumented workers and refugees risk their lives crossing that river or
the Arizona desert or travel through the Tijuana-San Ysidro sewage pipe or pack
themselves in boxcars and car trunks, risking suffocation, not because they like
to but because they have to. Given a choice, these people would remain home.
History shows that no artificial or natural barrier has ever had the power to
stop human beings forced by their circumstances to migrate.

U.S. immigration policy has increased the human cost of undocumented migration
without deterring it. As the obstacles grow, so does the need of people expelled
from their homelands by crushing poverty and war. Human decency and pragmatism
demand new directions for U.S. policies, ones committed to ending wars and
repression in Central America and relieving the grinding burden of debt on the
people of Mexico and much of Latin America. The Bush administration has an
opportunity for charting such a new course.

If repressive measures hurt immigrants, they also take the people of the USA
very far from their dream.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w (Primitivo Rodreguez)

TYPE: Opinion

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              27 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 30, 1989, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Face-off: Stopping illegal immigration;
Toughen the barriers against illegals

BYLINE: Patrick Burns, Guest columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 284 words


- Repatriation of Mexican and Canadian illegal aliens to the interior of their
home countries as is now done for illegal aliens from other nations.

- Levying a border-crossing ''user fee'' to fund improved traffic management at
legal ports of entry and fund interior repatriation of apprehended illegal
aliens. A $ 2-per-person inspection fee would generate over $ 600 million a
year. A similar fee is already charged overseas airline entrants.

The good news is that, although a total prohibition on the knowing employment of
illegal aliens has been in effect for just three months, border apprehensions
are down 45%. The bad news is that over 1 million illegal aliens were
apprehended last year.

Some will argue that border security is tantamount to building a Berlin Wall.
This is silly. A ''Berlin Wall'' locks members of the nation in. It is akin to
house arrest and violates the internationally recognized right to emigrate. But
just as every person has the right to lock his back door against illegal entry,
so too does every nation have the right to a secure border.

Opponents of immigration law enforcement never mention our own huddled masses -
the 30 million Americans now living in poverty. Instead, they pray for a magic
wand to wipe out all hunger, unemployment and war; they would cast a solvable
domestic problem into the void of global social change.

When it comes down to it, opponents of increased border security offer no
solutions.By sniping from the sidelines, however, they risk being accused of
being inadvertent collaborators of alien and drug smugglers.

The old adage, ''If you aren't part of the solution, you're part of the
problem,'' remains as true as ever.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w (Patrick Burns)

TYPE: Opinion

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              28 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 24, 1989, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Refugee policy called success;
Asylum requests plummet

BYLINE: Julie Morris; Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Texas


''If we suddenly see illegals are coming above ground somewhere else on the
border, we can be there,'' he said.

Political asylum applications this week plummeted from 631 on Monday to 10 on
Thursday.

''We can only speculate that the word has gotten out and many of those coming
for purely economic reasons are not coming anymore,'' said INS spokeswoman
Virginia Kice.

Rejected applicants are being held for deportation - single adults in a fenced
detention center, families in a Red Cross shelter - where they must answer daily
roll calls.

Among those held: Maria Olivia Berrios, 33, who crossed three countries from El
Salvador, avoiding police and thieves. ''After all that we've been through, I
can't believe we'll be turned back,'' she said. ''We'll either be killed or
we'll die of hunger if we go back.''

The new policy is designed to weed out ''frivolous'' applications before
immigrants travel farther into the USA.

Nicaraguan Freddie Marquez-Rodriguez, 20, said it's impossible for refugees to
raise bonds - which can run between $ 1,000 and $ 4,000 - for release from
detention.

''We want to work to bring over our families, or to send them money for food,''
Marquez-Rodriguez said. ''But we can't get out of here.''

Since last July, 40,000 Central Americans have used the Rio Grande Valley as a
gateway to the USA.

Nicaraguan Marco Zeleson said he planned his trip for a year and didn't know
about the new policy until he arrived. ''If I could warn others, I would tell
them not to come here.''

Many Brownsville residents, who say they were overwhelmed by the flood of
refugees, applaud the crackdown.

Angie Rosales, a waitress who lives near an abandoned motel taken over by
refugees, said they hurt tourism.

The influx ''made Brownsville look dirty,'' she said.

Critics say the policy tramples refugees' civil rights.

The INS may run into the same legal roadblock that halted its detention of
Haitian refugees a decade ago, said Rick Swartz of the National Immigration,
Refugee and Citizenship Forum.

The courts ''declared round-'em-up, speed-'em-through and head-'em-out programs
illegal and unconstitutional,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO FIRST; b/w, Tom Roster, USA TODAY (refugee detention center);
PHOTO FIRST; b/w, Tom Roster, USA TODAY (Vilma Cauizales, grandson Luis
Alberto); PHOTO; b/w, Pat Sullivan, AP (Alberto Gomez)

CUTLINE: HELD: Salvadoran Alberto Gomez peers through the fence of the INS men's
compound, where undocumented aliens are being held for processing or
deportation.

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              29 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 2, 1989, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

For illegals, sky turns infriendly

BYLINE: Andrea Stone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 222 words


Airline employees and passengers are becoming involved, tipping federal agents
to the latest smuggling routes.

Although illegal immigrants have long flown domestic carriers, ''the new thing
here is the sheer numbers'' traveling together, says Atlanta INS investigator
Neil Jacobs.

''We've never seen 70 or 100 illegal aliens being placed on a commercial carrier
before.''

Another twist: Smugglers are avoiding non-stop flights to New York, which are
closely monitored by federal agents.

''Who knows how many flights (carrying aliens) are going through Wichita, Kan.,
or Springfield, Ill.,'' Jacobs says.

Airline officials say they've noticed large groups of Hispanics traveling daily
to New York for at least three months, but ''We don't just hit on people who
look Hispanic,'' says INS agent Bob O'Leary.

Among the tip-offs: groups booked without passenger names listed until check-in,
cash payment for tickets, no checked luggage, and an unwillingness to leave the
plane during stopovers.

Behind the increase in air smuggling:

- Tougher penalties on employers who hire illegals and an economic slowdown in
Southern California are forcing many to seek jobs elsewhere.

- U.S. border crackdowns make land travel dangerous.

- Profits are big, risks small for smugglers, who often leave their charges at
the gate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Chuck Burton, AP (illegal immigrants)

CUTLINE: FLIGHT OVER: Some of 27 illegal immigrants captured on an airliner
Wednesday morning board a bus in Charlotte, N.C.

Accompanying stories; Change warning

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              30 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      March 3, 1989, Friday, FIRST EDITION

Illegal immigrants feel squeeze;
Because of L.A. glut, many head elsewhere

BYLINE: Sally Ann Stewart

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 314 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


But crackdowns on illegal immigrants and their employers don't slow the flow.

''The laws prevent people from getting jobs and being able to survive,'' says
Jill Esbenshade of the aid agency Carecen. ''But they don't stop anyone from
coming here.''

Experts say the city has the USA's largest illegal-immigrant population,
including 500,000 Mexicans, 350,000 El Salvadorans and 100,000 Guatemalans.

Andres Melendez and his wife, Elvira Casteneda, knew they'd have trouble getting
jobs here, but they crossed the U.S.-Mexico border anyway.

''Money is worth more here than in Mexico,'' Melendez said. ''We couldn't
survive there anymore.''

Melendez, 42, is a skilled carpenter and Casteneda, 41, is a beautician. Today,
they're applying for hotel janitorial jobs.

''In Mexico, the minimum wage is 8,000 pesos (less than $ 4) a day,'' Casteneda
says. ''A liter of milk costs 2,000 pesos.''

The couple and their son, 14, are staying at Dolores Mission, a Roman Catholic
parish that helps illegal immigrants.

''This is the underground railroad,'' Rev. Tom Smolich says. About 90 men sleep
in the church's sanctuary. Some 40 women and children sleep in another, secret
location.

''The government puts so much money and emphasis on catching illegal immigrants.
That isn't changing the circumstances that make people come here,'' he says.

Casteneda says she and Melendez want to save their money so they can send for
their three daughters - ages 21, 19 and 7 - in Mexico.

''In Mexico there is a big illusion there are dollars on the trees in Los
Angeles,'' she says. ''We thought it would be easier, but we will keep trying
because what we want to come here for is very worthwhile.''

''The government puts so much money and emphasis on catching illegal immigrants.
That isn't changing the circumstances that make people come here.'' - Rev. Tom
Smolich of Dolores Mission

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Bob Riha, Gamma-Liaison (Elvira Casteneda, Andres Melendez)


CUTLINE: TRYING TO SURVIVE: Elvira Castenada, left, and her husband, Andres
Melendez, of Mexico City, have been living at Dolores Mission in Los Angeles for
more than a month.

Accompanying story; Risky job; 'Vice cops of INS'

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              31 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      March 3, 1989, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Risky job: 'Vice cops of INS'

BYLINE: Andrea Stone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 228 words

Acosta used his baseball cap to filter the poisonous smoke as they drove across
the border from Tijuana. ''I prayed and I said, 'God, I could be somewhere
else.' ''

Acosta is one of 300 agents in an elite, undercover unit of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service that this week cracked down on illegal immigrants in U.S.
airports.

''We're the vice cops of INS,'' says Bob O'Leary, the agent in charge of a unit
begun in 1978.

Acosta, 35, has been smuggled across the U.S.-Mexico border five times in his
12-year career. Once, on a trip from El Paso to Chicago, he went without food
for 3 1/2 days. ''A good way to lose weight,'' he jokes.

The agents - many Hispanic; all bilingual - often risk their lives posing as
illegal immigrants, drivers or smugglers.

The unit's main target are the coyotes - smugglers who rip off unsuspecting
illegal immigrants by charging up to $ 5,000 for passage and then, in many
cases, mistreating and abandoning them.

Working under such non-descript names as Acme Brakes Inc., the unit last year
arrested 13,200 smugglers. A recent case netted 87 - who shipped 3,200 illegal
immigrants in locked boxcars. Although the unit represents 4 percent of all INS
agents, it takes credit for 1 of every 3 felony convictions.

Says O'Leary, ''The same people smuggling aliens are often the same people
smuggling drugs and guns.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Accompanies; Illegal immigrants feel squeeze

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              32 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      March 3, 1989, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Illegal immigrants feel squeeze

BYLINE: Sally Ann Stewart

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 304 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


But crackdowns on illegal immigrants and their employers don't slow the flow.

''The laws prevent people from getting jobs and being able to survive,'' says
Jill Esbenshade of the aid agency Carecen. ''But they don't stop anyone from
coming here.''

Experts say the city has the USA's largest illegal-immigrant population,
including 500,000 Mexicans, 350,000 El Salvadorans and 100,000 Guatemalans.

Andres Melendez and his wife, Elvira Casteneda, knew they'd have trouble getting
jobs here, but they crossed the U.S.-Mexico border anyway.

''Money is worth more here than in Mexico,'' Melendez said. ''We couldn't
survive there anymore.''

Melendez, 42, is a skilled carpenter and Casteneda, 41, is a beautician. Today,
they're applying for hotel janitorial jobs.

''In Mexico, the minimum wage is 8,000 pesos (less than $ 4) a day,'' Casteneda
says. ''A liter of milk costs 2,000 pesos.''

The couple and their son, 14, are staying at Dolores Mission, a Roman Catholic
parish that helps illegal immigrants.

''This is the underground railroad,'' Rev. Tom Smolich says. About 90 men sleep
in the church's sanctuary. Some 40 women and children sleep in another, secret
location.

''The government puts so much money and emphasis on catching illegal immigrants.
That isn't changing the circumstances that make people come here,'' he says.

''We suffered a lot to get here and we can't give up that easily,'' Melendez
says. ''It is still better here. If you need medicine or food or legal help,
people help you. In Mexico, we couldn't afford to send our children to school
anymore.''

Casteneda says she and Melendez want to save their money so they can send for
their three daughters - ages 21, 19 and 7 - in Mexico.

''In Mexico there is a big illusion there are dollars on the trees in Los
Angeles,'' she says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Bob Riha, Gamma-Liaison (Elvira Casteneda, Andres Melendez)


CUTLINE: TRYING TO SURVIVE: Elvira Castenada, left, and her husband, Andres
Melendez, of Mexico City, have been living at Dolores Mission in Los Angeles for
more than a month.

Accompanying stories; Risky job; 'Vice cops of INS'; Audit criticizes INS
managers

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              33 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                       May 1, 1989, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Central American youths take to asylum road alone

BYLINE: Julie Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 285 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Texas


Reynaldo is among a stream of unaccompanied Central American children the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is caring for temporarily as illegal
immigrants.

Nearly 1,000 youngsters have been fed and counseled at five INS shelters in the
past 18 months. A sixth shelter opens this month.

The youngsters, mostly teen-age males, are taught English and given cultural
tips, like not whistling at women in public - a Central American custom.

''I wish when I was teaching, I had kids as eager to learn as these,'' says
Jesse Villarreal, head of a Los Fresnos shelter. ''These kids are survivors.''

Most of the children ''come in scared,'' says Ophelia Garcia, a housemother at a
shelter in Houston. ''The one thing they all have in common is they eat and eat
and eat.''

Shelter officials place many of the kids with relatives in the USA - to await
INS hearings and possible deportation.

Many have been sent across the border by parents who believe the youngsters will
find a better life away from the political strife, civil war, military draft and
poverty of El Salvador, Guatemala or Nicaragua.

''They mostly talk about their families,'' says Garcia. ''But they'll sit,
trying to top each other with stories on how they made it through Mexico.''

It took Reynaldo, whom the INS asked not be identified by full name, 62 days to
get to Brownsville - walking, hitchhiking and hopping trains.

''I had no money,'' says Reynaldo, a stocky 5-foot-2-inch farm boy who can't
read or write. ''Whatever people would feed me, I would eat.''

He has made no plans: ''Whatever happens, happens.''

The day after he was interviewed, Reynaldo disappeared from a interim shelter.
He hasn't been seen since.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Anthony Padilla (Homer Tamez)

CUTLINE: INTERVIEW: INS case manager Homer Tamez, left, talks with a Central
American youth at the Los Fresnos, Texas, shelter.

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              34 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 10, 1989, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Illegal aliens in Census up for vote

BYLINE: Bob Minzesheimer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 261 words



The House Wednesday faces a showdown vote on whether illegal immigrants should
be counted in the 1990 Census.

The answer could help determine which states gain and lose House seats in next
decade's reapportionment that adjusts for population shifts.

An estimated 2 million illegal immigrants included in the 1980 Census affected
the size of House delegations in four states, says the Congressional Research
Service.

New York kept a seat and California gained a seat that otherwise could have gone
to Georgia and Indiana, states with fewer illegal immigrants.

Now, the states in line to benefit are Florida, New York, Illinois and
California.  The potential losers: Kentucky, North Carolina and Wisconsin.

Since the first Census in 1790, illegal immigrants have been included in
population figures used in reapportionment. Census officials point to the
constitutional mandate to count ''the whole number of persons in each state.''

They say asking about immigrants' legal status would add to an undercount of
minorities.

But Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., argues that ''illegal aliens do not have the right
to vote, so why should they have the right to determine the makeup of our
government?''

The Senate last month voted 50-41 for an amendment excluding illegals from the
count.

A similar proposal lost in the House on a procedural move by Democratic leaders.
But it will come up again on a motion to instruct House negotiators to accept
the Senate version.

Supporters may have a majority. Only a few states have ''huge loads of
illegals,'' says Rep. Harold Rogers, R-Ky. ''Many other states, such as
Kentucky, would suffer.''

But critics, such as Rep. Vic Fazio, D-Calif., say illegal immigrants add to the
social welfare burden where they live and ought to be represented.

Federal courts have rejected suits against the Census Bureau. And Commerce
Secretary Robert Mosbacher says he'll recommend a presidential veto of any bill
that bans counting illegal immigrants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              35 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 14, 1991, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Critics call for closure of immigration center

BYLINE: Jeanne DeQuine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 711 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A series of cement-block buildings sprawled across a barren area west of the
city houses the USA's modern-day Ellis Island.

But there's no beckoning Lady Liberty, and the setting is far short of inviting
to a growing throng of refugees arriving here in the last decade.

Girdled by razor wire, the Krome Avenue Detention Center is as much a prison as
anything, its occupants and their advocates say. Claims that guards have
sexually and otherwise physically abused inmates and that some nationalities
among its 441 would-be immigrants are treated unequally are leading critics to
call for its closure.

''It looks like a jail. It smells like a jail,'' Mayor Xavier Suarez says. ''It
is ... a symbol of disparate treatment.''

Suarez, whose city sometimes suffers under the pressures of its restive
immigrant population, this week joined a growing chorus of politicians and human
rights advocates who say Krome should be closed. He wants it converted to
housing for the homeless.

In a letter to Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., Suarez wrote: ''Detainees at Krome have
committed no crime yet seem to be treated like criminals.''

But officials of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, which
administers Krome, are critical of those who call for its closure.

The facility was built in the early 1980s as political and economic refugees
began flooding Miami, making it one of the nation's top immigration spots.

''The (local) government is attempting to intervene in foreign affairs,'' says
Krome administrator Kathleen Weiss.

Adds deputy administrator Mike Rozos: ''Dade County and the city of Miami want
an open border in south Florida. This political nonsense is what destroys
communities.''

He says the INS takes responsibility for many foreign nationals whom local
governments couldn't handle.

''This is not the creme de la creme,'' he says of Krome's residents. ''You have
got scumbuckets here.''

Krome's Thursday population included 147 Haitians, 92 Cubans, 72 Chinese and 130
from other countries.

Among them are people who claim to hear rumors of abuse. ''I have heard about
beatings, but I haven't seen them,'' says Jean Misere Thermidor, 35, a Haitian.

Claims last year that Krome guards abused detainees, including a rape report,
led the FBI to open an investigation. There has been no report on the probe's
progress, and the Justice Department says it may take five years.

''It's been more than a year since the first allegations were made,'' says Rep.
Dante Fascell, D-Fla., who initiated the investigation. ''It's been too long for
an answer.''

The sexual abuse claims came from several Haitian women no longer at Krome.

''A lot of women at Krome don't feel they can question sexual demands by
guards,'' says Cheryl Little, a lawyer for the Haitian Refugee Center.
''Basically, they are at the mercy of their offenders.''

Weiss acknowledges one report of a rape at Krome that is under investigation.

There also have been claims that guards have kicked, punched and beaten male
inmates and thrown them into isolation arbitrarily.

''We are not sitting here ... scheduling daily beatings of these people,'' Weiss
says. ''There's no institutional policy of beating people.''

Haitian rights' groups have demonstrated several times outside Krome to protest
reported ill treatment and the fact that so many people held there are accused
of no crime.

People arriving in Florida from Cuba usually are processed through Krome but
then released under a 1966 federal law giving them special status. Haitians and
others are held at Krome for an average of a year while they await oft-delayed
immigration hearings.

''Detention is arbitrary. It's an abuse of discretion,'' says lawyer William
Sanchez, who represents several Chinese inmates who came to the USA after the
1989 Tiananmen Square democracy uprising.

''I'm afraid I'm going to be here forever,'' says Pierre Jean, 25, a Haitian who
says he has been in Krome seven months. He says he has a wife and five children
in Haiti.

Weiss agrees that Haitians are detained longer than people of other
nationalities because most of them apply for a political asylum, which can take
a long time to decide on. She says they aren't readily released because, ''They
are not a good bail risk.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS; b/w, Tom Salyer (2)

CUTLINE: SEEKING ASYLUM: Two Haitians hide their faces in the men's dormitory of
the Krome Avenue Detention Center in Miami. CUTLINE: LUNCH AT KROME AVENUE: Issa
Yaqui, 21, of Afghanistan, left, converses over the noontime meal with Pakistani
detainee Mohammed Ismael, 40.

MIAMI'S KROME AVENUE FACILITY

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              36 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 11, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Haitians abused, protesters say

BYLINE: Jeanne DeQuine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 409 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


About 350 people Sunday protested purported abuse of Haitians at an immigration
processing center.

The protesters, beating conga drums and blowing conch shells, marched peacefully
at the Krome Detention Center.

''Many abuses have taken place,'' said Gerard Jean-Juste of Veye Yo, a Haitian
advocacy group. ''They are sexual, psychological and physical.''

In April, a similar demonstration turned unexpectedly tense after protesters
tore down the facility's front gate. But there were no arrests or injuries in
either demonstration.

Sunday about 20 police officers in riot gear, and equipped with tear gas
canisters, stood inside the center's front gate.

More than 50 other officers and U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
agents stood by inside the center.

Protesters used a flatbed truck to symbolically block a road to the center,
which is on the edge of the Everglades. Some sat in the truck's shadow, selling
snacks and soft drinks in the 90-degree heat.

Earlier this year a teacher at Krome said several Haitians told her they had
been abused. The FBI is investigating.

INS officials would not comment Sunday, but earlier had denied any abuse at the
center.

Sunday's protest followed reports that Haiti's police force now routinely jails
and interrogates all Haitians the INS sends back to the island nation.

''We have been told by officials in Haiti it's an official policy,'' said Cheryl
Little, a lawyer for Miami's Haitian Refugee Center.

About 400 people, 240 of them Haitians, are being detained at the Krome center.
Many await processing of political asylum applications.

Haitian advocates have long argued that the INS denies all but a few such
applications, on the assumption that Haitians leave their homeland for economic,
not political, reasons.

Last month the INS sent about 40 Haitians back to their homeland. Haitian police
met the plane in Port-au-Prince and arrested the Haitians. They were
subsequently released.

Haitian advocates have called for an end to deportations until Haiti's political
climate is safe for those returned.

''Until we have a democracy in Haiti, it's inhuman to return people whose lives
are threatened,'' said Little.

More than 125,000 Haitians live in Miami, including naturalized citizens, other
legal residents and illegal immigrants.

''It's unfair to keep the Haitians in Krome,'' said resident Jacqueline St.
Paul, 43, a factory worker. ''They didn't do anything wrong.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w (Refugees-Haitian, Rams Tanis); PHOTO; b/w, Tom Salyer
(Refugees-Haitian, protestors)

CUTLINE: SPEAKING SOFTLY: Rams Tanis, 8, stands quietly to one side as Haitians
demonstrate at Krome Detention Center CUTLINE: FENCED OUT: Protesters talk with
a guard inside Miami detention facility. At a similar demonstration in April,
protesters tore down the center's front gate.

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              37 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 12, 1991, Friday, FINAL EDITION

L.A. spooked by South American spider

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A new wave of illegal immigrants has tangled the city in a web of intrigue.

How did a rare and potentially lethal species of spiders weave their way up from
their native South America into several downtown L.A. buildings?

County health department officials, who just revealed the discovery of more than
100 of the so-called violin spiders, are scratching their heads.

''It's the first time they've been discovered in the city,'' says Frank Hall,
head of the county Vectorborne Disease Surveillance and Entomology Program.
''They've been there for a number of years and I'm sure they're in other areas.
It may never end.''

A bite from the violin spider, which gets its name from the violin-shaped
pattern on its back, can be deadly if not treated immediately.

''But it's more ugly than fatal,'' says Hall. ''It creates a sore. The venom
destroys the tissues and leaves an ugly scar. You think you're falling apart.''

No bites have been reported, partly because the spiders bite only when
threatened.

The tan, quarter-inch spiders favor vacant basements. So far, they've been
spotted in the unused basements of six businesses in an 18-square-block patch of
downtown.

Hall says it's very likely South American immigrants unknowingly gave the
spiders a lift across the border.

''People brought furniture and clothing and some of it ended up in old missions
here. And some of the crates brought in had spiders,'' Hall says.

''I've seen them before but I thought it was just another spider,'' says Miguel
Perez, manager of a Del Taco and the unwilling landlord to a family of violin
spiders. ''I got their webs on my face a lot of time but I didn't worry too
much.''

Now he does. Perez and other businesses are busy calling in exterminators.

''But people should have a little respect and not be overly fearful,'' Hall
says. ''They're not gonna be chasing people. It's not like Arachnophobia.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              38 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 6, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

62 agents to bolster Ariz.-Mexico border

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1156 words


President Clinton on Sunday ordered the redeployment of 62 U.S. Border Patrol
agents to Nogales, Ariz., to stem what the White House called "an unprecedented
rise in illegal border crossings" brought on partly by the Mexican peso crisis.
The reinforcement is about a 17% increase and is in addition to 100 new agents
being trained for duty around Nogales. The area has become a popular illegal
crossing point because of successful crackdowns in El Paso and San Diego.
Arrests of illegal border crossers around Nogales topped 19,000 in January,
double the number in January 1994. The redeployed agents report Tuesday.

SONS SLAIN: David Smith has received 20,000 letters, cards and gifts from around
the world since his estranged wife admitted she drowned their two sons Oct. 25
by rolling her car into a Union, S.C., lake with the tots strapped inside.

"To get a card that says, 'I'm thinking about you,' or 'You are still in my
prayers' is a boost that sometimes gets me to the next minute," Smith, 24, told
The Herald-Journal of Spartanburg in his first interview after two months of
public silence about the deaths of Michael, 3, and Alex, 14 months.

"I don't really have a good day," Smith said. "I have bad days and horrible
days. . . . Sometimes I find myself on my knees." Smith said he last saw the
boys two days before their death. During that Sunday afternoon and evening, he
read them books, wrestled with them and played blocks with Alex. "We just did
things dads like to do with their sons," he said.  Susan Smith, 23, is being
held on murder charges. Her trial is expected to begin in July.

PRISON DISTURBANCES: An uprising at the District of Columbia's maximum-security
prison in Lorton, Va., injured six corrections officers and six inmates.
Officials said a power outage unlocked 88 cell doors. Order was restored by
emergency response teams. In Chicago's Cook County Jail, 21 inmates and four
guards were hurt in a 2 1/2-hour protest Saturday over adding one more inmate to
each cell, for a total of three. There are 9,000 inmates; the jail is supposed
to hold only 8,000, officials said.

MINE DEATH: Mike Anderson, 26, the second of two miners trapped for two days
1,600 feet in a mine in Green River, Wyo., died of a heart attack after rescuers
lifted him out. The other miner, Dan Jereb, 28, was hospitalized in good
condition. They got separated from other workers and couldn't find their way out
of the maze of shafts, thrown into darkness by a 5.4-magnitude earthquake
Friday.

PRIESTS REMOVED: Four Washington, D.C.-area Catholic priests were removed from
their parishes after admitting they sexually abused the same altar boy in the
1970s, Cardinal James Hickey announced in a letter to worshipers. The decision
to publicize the incidents came after U.S. bishops in October recommended
officials take an open approach after being accused of covering up past abuses.

ADOPTION FIGHT: Photos of Baby Richard were shown to his biological father
Friday, the first time Otakar Kirchner has seen his now 4-year-old son. The U.S.
Supreme Court this week is expected to decide whether it will review an Illinois
Supreme Court ruling that ordered adoptive parents known as John and Jane Doe to
turn the boy over to Kirchner.

Seeing the 14 photos strengthened Kirchner's resolve to make Richard's
transition from the Does as painless as possible. "He'll bend over backward to
make it a very slow, gradual transition," said Kirchner's lawyer, Loren
Heinemann. Richard's mother, Daniela Janikova, and Kirchner were unmarried and
estranged when Richard was born.

She put him up for adoption and told Kirchner he was dead. The couple later
married. Kirchner first sought custody when Richard was 57 days old.

ALSO . . .

-- MENINGITIS OUTBREAK: Health officials in Mankato, Minn., today will vaccinate
and give antibiotics to 5,000 people who had close contact with students at West
High School, where a bacterial meningitis outbreak struck five students, a
woman, 64, and a boy, 3. One teen-ager died.

-- WOLVES SPARED: Alaska Gov. Tony Knowles halted the state's wolf-kill program
Friday, saying it was inhumane and ineptly run. News photos in November showed a
state agent shooting a snared wolf four times before it died. Program proponents
say predator control is needed to ensure adequate supplies of other game for
hunters.

-- TANKER EXPLODES: A truck carrying 6,000 gallons of a flammable mixture of
butane and petroleum exploded on an Emeryville, Calif., freeway, killing the
driver and injuring seven. The blast damaged the freeway and five cars.

'94 score: 81.5% on-time record

The nation's 10 largest airlines posted an 81.5% on-time arrival record in 1994,
about the same as 1993, the Department of Transportation's yearly report says.
Those carriers also mishandled 5.33 bags per 1,000 passengers, down from 5.60 in
1993. Consumers filed 6,943 complaints against the air-travel industry, 16% more
than in 1993.

The monthly report for December shows consumers filed 390 complaints, down 20%
from November and 17% fewer than December a year ago. The 10 largest airlines
mishandled 6.72 bags per 1,000 passengers, about 3% more than a year ago. The
airlines' on-time record for December was 79.3%, about the same as a year ago
but down 2% from November. On-time is within 15 minutes of schedule and delays
due to mechanical problems are not included.

Flights that arrived on time Northwest ........ 84.7% United ........... 83.8%
Delta ............ 80.9% USAir ............ 80.9% Continental ...... 77.9%
American ......... 76.8% Southwest ........ 74.7% Alaska ........... 73.3% TWA
.............. 73.1% American West .... 73.0%

Complaints per 100,000 fliers Southwest ........ 0.33 Northwest ........ 0.34
Delta ............ 0.45 USAir ............ 0.48 United ........... 0.58 American
......... 0.65 TWA .............. 1.15 American West .... 1.25 Continental
...... 1.46 Source: Transportation Department Contributing: Carrie Dowling and
Gary Fields

LOAD-DATE: February 07, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, b/w, AP (2)

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; See info boxes at end of text.

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              39 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 8, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

This voter plan puts democracy at risk

BYLINE: Erich Pratt, Guest columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 414 words


Erich Pratt is executive director of United States Border Control.

 SPRINGFIELD, Va. - The National Voter Registration Act is an outrageous bill
that opens the floodgates to corrupt, Chicago-style elections. It gives illegal
aliens and repeat voters a highway into the voting booth and, thus, dilutes the
votes of honest citizens.

This bill has at least two major flaws:

- It lets people register by mail without showing any identification - a system
that invites repeat voting.

Last year, one New Yorker registered 84 times by mail - each time using a
different name. He then voted 33 times in the election and told a reporter he
would have voted even more often but simply ran out of time.

- This bill also lets special-interest groups register anyone without government
supervision. But how careful will such groups be about checking the citizenship
of illegal aliens? This is just too tempting for some.

For instance, the head of the Texas American Civil Liberties Union has publicly
confessed that he ''would also allow undocumented aliens the vote.''

Or consider Sen. Alan Cranston's most recent election. The California Democrat
is being investigated for using private, unsupervised registration groups to
deliberately enroll more Democratic voters than Republican.

Clearly, voter registration must not be left to unsupervised, partisan groups.

Proponents of this voting act claim its stiff penalties for vote fraud will
prevent such abuse. But this will not. If stiff penalties do not stop murderers
and rapists, why would they stop the vote buyer?

In fact, registration authorities have shown that Texas, California and Illinois
already have problems with illegal aliens voting in their elections. The
National Voter Registration Act would turn localized fraud into a national
crisis.

Proponents of this bill also claim that registration laws impede citizens from
voting. Not true. Our current system makes it easy for any citizen to vote.
Besides, their argument is like saying that boarding passes somehow impede
people from flying.

Obviously, boarding passes are intended to stop passenger fraud, not prevent
honest travelers from flying. Likewise, registration laws are intended to stop
fraud, not prevent honest citizens from voting.

Any citizen who wants to vote may do so. And, to be sure, more citizens should
vote. But encouraging vote fraud is not the answer to voter apathy. We need more
participation by legal voters, not illegal ones.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w (Erich Pratt)

TYPE: Opinion

Ribbon Label; FACE-OFF; MAKING VOTING EASIER; 2

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              40 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 17, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

QUOTELINES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 126 words


''If employers hire someone who turns out to be an illegal alien, they get
sanctions. If they don't hire because someone's paperwork is questionable and
they turn out not to be illegal, they get in trouble for discrimination.''
- Jill Scheldrup, U.S. Chamber of Commerce

''If a report showed a pattern of widespread discrimination against blacks, the
nation would be in an uproar. But it seems we are willing to accept that for
Latinos.''
- Michael Zamba, Nat'l. Assoc. Latino Elected Officials

''It is as important that employers do not discriminate as it is that they do
not employ unauthorized aliens.''
- Richard Thornburgh, attorney general

''So far, the law really has not been given a fair test.''
- U.S. Rep. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Opinion

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              41 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 12, 1990, Monday, FIRST EDITION

'SKINHEAD' CONVICTED

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 208 words


White supremacist Christopher Brosky, 19, was sentenced in Galveston, Texas, to
40 years in prison for engaging in organized crime in the 1991 slaying of Donald
Thomas, 32, a black man. Brosky's probated sentence on related charges in March
led to protests and a state hate-crimes law.

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS: School officials in Pine Valley, Calif., confronted with a
videotape showing youngsters crossing the U.S.-Mexican border and getting on
buses bound for local schools, are starting to challenge residency claims.
Assemblyman Jan Goldsmith, who produced the tapes, said about 350 children cross
the border and cost taxpayers $ 1 million annually in state funding.

MOTHER ACCUSED OF KILLING DAUGHTERS: Police in Salt Lake City Wednesday arrested
Theresa Jimmie Knorr, who is accused of fatally burning her daughter in 1984 and
starving to death her stepdaughter in 1985. Knorr, 47, and two sons already in
custody are charged in Placer County, Calif., where the bodies of Suesan Knorr,
17, and Sheila Sanders, 20, were dumped. Theresa Knorr wasn't a suspect until
Oct. 28 when another Knorr daughter from Sandy, Utah, told police the identity
of the bodies.

With: Gary Fields, Mark Downey, Steve Marshall and Carrie Ferguson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              42 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 28, 1989, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

LOUISIANA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 50 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS

INS: This may be 4th incident in 4 months involving firm. Stowaways may face
charges, deportation. ... BATON ROUGE - Louisiana State University's Commission
on Status of Women study: 1986-87 women faculty earned $ 8,575 less than men.
Cited: more women in lower ranks, lower-paying disciplines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              43 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                       May 5, 1989, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Amnesty program, Phase 2

BYLINE: Julie Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 269 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


''I kept in my mind, 'Don't be nervous, don't be nervous,' '' said Duarte, who
relaxed only after she aced the test.

Then she said: ''I feel comfortable. I don't know how to explain it. I've lived
in the United States illegally 11 years.''

Durate, 34, a restaurant worker, is among 269,000 immigrants who have applied
for permanent legal status.

Thousands of others are taking English and civics classes to prepare. Former
illegals granted amnesty must live here 18 months as temporary residents before
they apply.

The same law penalizes employers who hire illegals. Since it was enacted:

- Of 1.8 million who applied for the general amnesty that ended last May 4,
70,000 were rejected, the rest approved.

- Spot checks of 16,000 businesses found 4,016 in violation of the hiring ban.
More than $ 7 million in fines were assessed.

- Arrests of illegals at the USA's southern border have continued a four-year
decline. There were 67,900 last month, 94,426 in April 1988.

Residency applicants who have taken the classes can postpone the test if they
seek citizenship within five years. But 98 percent ask to be tested.

''It's fresh on their minds,'' says examiner Brenda Carter. Applicants must
correctly answer six questions, then read and write an English sentence.

Carter says people she tests are often those she interviewed when they applied
for amnesty. They talk like old friends.

''You never know what people have gone through until you listen to their
stories,'' Carter says. ''I appreciate my birthright more. I think we all take a
lot of things for granted just because we're citizens.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Accompanying story; Questions for residency

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              44 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     October 8, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

More foreign workers will hurt nation

BYLINE: Dan Stein, Guest columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 406 words


Dan Stein is executive director, Federation for American Immigration Reform.

 Congress is poised to increase immigration to all-time highs, adding at least a
quarter-million new immigrants a year, and probably more. The House bill would
probably raise levels to well over 1 million a year by 1994 and increase the
U.S. population by over 100 million by 2080.

Cost estimates range up to $ 3 billion a year, most to be borne by state and
local governments, and taxpayers.

What, you say? Increase immigration with economic storm clouds on the horizon?
Bring in more immigrants when Medicare is about to be cut by $ 60 billion, and
''deficit reduction'' taxes are to be levied on our unskilled and poorest? When
living standards of those on the bottom half of the income ladder are headed
straight down? When illegal immigrants are still pouring in?

Is this the time to raise immigration to all-time highs? Not according to the
polls. A new Roper survey says that over 75% of the American people want less,
not more, immigration. Large majorities also want illegal immigration brought
under control before any consideration is given to adding more immigrants.

Why did the House pass such a bill? The truth is found in the special interests
that captured the House: immigration lawyers, ethnic groups, cheap- labor
advocates.

Cast as a bill to ''increase skilled immigration,'' it's really special-
interest legislation in disguise.

The bill contains two new amnesties for illegal aliens, promotes more chain
migration of extended families of recent immigrants, brings in more political
asylum-seekers and their families, and re-establishes the discredited idea of
national origin discrimination.

Rather than reverting to ethnic discrimination in our policy and sending
immigration numbers through the roof, Congress should:

- Get our borders under control; enforce the sanctions against hiring illegal
immigrants.

- Then put an overall ceiling on legal immigration consistent with a stable U.S.
population.

- Establish a system of ''packet'' immigration which keeps nuclear families
intact and ends chain migration of extended families.

- Open immigration opportunities for people on the basis of skills and economic
contribution, not nepotistic family relations.

Most Americans think 250 million Americans is enough. Congress should leave the
current immigration proposals at the border, and start over next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w (Dan Stein)

Ribbon Label; FACE - OFF; CONTROLLING OUR BORDERS; 2

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              45 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     October 8, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Nation needs more immigrant workers

BYLINE: Bruce A. Morrison, Guest columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 399 words


Rep. Bruce A. Morrison, D-Conn., is chairman of the House immigration
subcommittee.

 American immigration is an engine of unprecedented prosperity, liberty and
diversity. Yet Congress is about to reform our immigration for only the third
time in the nation's history.

In the 1920s, the United States established country quotas that allowed
immigrants from Europe - and kept out almost everyone else. In 1965, we replaced
ethnic quotas with family and employment-based immigration. That law is now as
obsolete as a 1965 encyclopedia.

Immigration policy has three goals: to unify families, to fill jobs Americans
are not filling and to ensure the diversity that makes us America. Our
immigration laws must be pro-family and practical to be enforced. U.S. citizens
who marry foreigners, and permanent resident aliens who live, work and pay taxes
in this country must have the right to live here with their families.

Some fear immigrant workers take American jobs. Nonsense. They help keep jobs in
this country.

Take the New York handbag repair shop that may close when a skilled artisan's
temporary visa expires. Or the rapidly growing West Coast computer company that
recruited technicians from India and got so tired of INS delay and expense, that
it simply built a factory in India. The Americans who worked in the repair shop
will be unemployed, and those factory workers making computers on the West Coast
won't be moving to new jobs in India.

Businesses know better than anyone that we must train Americans for skilled
jobs. If there were enough qualified Americans, American businesses would hire
them. Large companies hiring immigrants should also help pay to train and
educate American workers. But we also need more immigrant workers now to remain
a competitive economy.

We also need to ensure that traditional sources of immigration such as Ireland,
Italy and Poland are not denied as they have been since 1965. And we need to
include sources that have been left out, such as Africa. Diversity has been our
strength.

America is unique because we are a nation by choice. Only exceptional people
pull up stakes and come to a new land to start all over. Immigrants are
self-selected strivers, in 1990 no less than in 1910. Immigration identifies and
recruits the hardest working, most courageous and future- oriented people on
earth: past, present and future Americans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w (Bruce A. Morrison)

Ribbon Label; FACE - OFF; CONTROLLING OUR BORDERS; 2

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              46 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 12, 1992, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SAME GUN

BYLINE: Steve Marshall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 550 words


FBI officials have launched a nationwide manhunt for a .22-caliber handgun
believed to have been used to kill six store clerks in a string of robberies
from Indiana to Kansas. All were shot in the head at strip shopping malls.
Shootings took place in Indianapolis; Wichita, Kan.; Terre Haute, Ind.; St.
Charles, Mo.; and Raytown, Mo.

FAMILY MASSACRES: Texas counted its worst violent crime this year in Pecos, when
gunman Gilbert Dominguez, 48, killed his 18-month-old daughter, three of his
estranged girlfriend's relatives and then himself. In Long Beach, Calif., Tracy
Matthews, 23, killed her three children and husband before stabbing herself.
She's in fair condition.

IMMIGRATION STUDY: The 1986 U.S. Immigration Reform Control Act - passed to
reduce Mexican border immigration by increasing patrols and outlawing hiring of
undocumented workers - has been largely unsuccessful, a University of Chicago
study shows. Cited: In some rural Mexican towns, almost every man can expect to
migrate to the USA at least once by age 40. The probe of 1,350 U.S. migrant
workers also shows most men who migrate in young adulthood face a 50- 50 chance
of being apprehended.

ALSO MONDAY

- AIDS RULING: A federal judge declared unconstitutional a 1986 Centers for
Disease Control rule requiring federally funded AIDS education materials to
avoid anything that could be offensive. Several AIDS groups sued over it.

- REDISTRICTING: A federal three-judge panel ordered new legislative elections
for Aug. 4 in Mississippi, giving candidates less than a month to qualify. The
change follows a challenge by blacks over legislative boundaries.

- BANK KILLING TRIAL: Jury selection began in the trial of retired Denver police
sergeant James King, 55, accused of killing four unarmed guards during a bank
robbery last summer that netted $ 200,000.

- PROBABLE PILOT ERROR: Air Force investigators say pilot error may have caused
last month's crash of an
F-22 prototype, the only flyable version of a next-generation fighter plane,
congressional sources said.

- NUCLEAR PLANT RESTART: New Jersey's Salem II nuclear power plant - shut down
by a $ 75 million fire - is producing electricity for the first time in six
months, a utility official said. By week's end, full capacity is expected.

United Way meets with chapters

United Way of America President Kenneth Dam and Northwest United Way
representatives met in Seattle in the first of three meetings aimed at mending
fences with independent chapters.

Public confidence in the charity giant was shaken this year following reports
that former president William Aramony's compensation totaled $ 463,000 a year.
Questions also were raised about management practices, and many affiliates
decided to withhold all or part of their national dues.

''We're here to hear what people would like the United Way of America to
become,'' Dam said after a private meeting with representatives of 25 agencies
in Washington, Oregon, Alaska, Idaho and Montana.

The West Coast swing is part of a series of meetings across the USA to brief
local charities on changes being made after Aramony's resignation and to solicit
ideas on a new governing structure for the national organization.

Contributing: Darci McConnell, Sandra Sanchez and Robert Davis

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, David Longstreath, AP; PHOTO; b/wUPI

CUTLINE: PICKING UP: Bret Richardson carries his bicycle from debris after a
tornado ripped through a Kingston, Okla., home Monday. Twisters in southern
Oklahoma injured 11 people and destroyed 28 homes and businesses in Kingston and
seven homes near Tupelo. CUTLINE: DAM: Wants to hear from people

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              47 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 23, 1992, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

High court chills hopes of asylum

BYLINE: Tony Mauro; Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 279 words


Refugees from strife-torn nations can be denied asylum in the U.S. under a
Supreme Court ruling Wednesday.

The 6-3 decision gives immigration officials broad discretion to deny refugee
status - even to applicants who fled their countries to escape service in
guerrilla forces.

Nearly 100,000 refugee applications may be pending, most from Central America.

Loser in the case: Jairo Jonathan Elias Zacarias, who left his native Guatemala
in 1987 at age 18 after masked gunmen tried to recruit him.

The court said Zacarias' story didn't fit the legal requirement that he show
persecution for ''political opinion.''

A refugee applicant must produce ''evidence so compelling that no reasonable
factfinder could fail to find the requisite fear of persecution,'' Justice
Antonin Scalia wrote.

That high standard is ''fundamentally anti-humanitarian,'' said Arthur Helton of
the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. ''It will affect ... thousands of people
from countries with civil strife - El Salvador, South Africa, Guatemala,
Afghanistan, Haiti.''

Washington, D.C., immigration lawyer Michael Maggio said that under the court's
standard, ''If you were being forcibly recruited into the Nazi party of Germany
before they took power and you refused to attack Jews, you would be refused
political asylum.''

The fate of more than 6,000 Haitian refugees detained at a U.S. military base in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, also was hanging in the balance Wednesday.

Justice Department official Kenneth Starr Wednesday argued before a federal
appeals court panel in Atlanta that they ''have no enforceable rights'' to
asylum, in part because they never reached the U.S. border.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              48 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      March 6, 1992, Friday, FIRST EDITION

Probert's playoff plans could be changing soon

BYLINE: Fred Girard

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 303 words

DATELINE: DETROIT


Bob Probert has a chance, albeit a small one, to accompany the Detroit Red Wings
across the border to play Canadian opponents in the Stanley Cup playoffs.

He is appealing his deportation order by the U.S. Immigration Service. Until the
matter is resolved, he cannot leave the country without staying out.

Probert, who has not played in Canada since being convicted for bringing cocaine
across the border in 1989, is a mainstay of the Norris Division- leading Red
Wings.

Armed with a favorable court decision, he soon will apply for permission to
cross the border and return, lawyer Harold Fried said.

The ruling, issued Jan. 29 by the U.S. Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in
Cincinnati, added strength to the two points on which his case rests:

- That the judge who sentenced Probert in 1989 issued a judicial recommendation
against deportation. The judge believed Probert had paid a heavy-enough price
(three months in jail, three in a halfway house) and Immigration officials could
not consider the cocaine conviction in any deportation hearings.

- That the reason Probert needed a special waiver to enter the USA in the first
place, alcoholism, no longer is grounds to exclude potential immigrants.

Probert is classified as an aggravated felon because of his 1989 conviction.
Immigration law demanded at the time that such felons be kept in custody pending
the outcome of deportation proceedings. His attorneys persuaded a Detroit court
the rule is unconstitutional.

While the government's appeal was pending before a Cincinnati court, the issue
suddenly became moot. Congress passed a law striking down the mandatory-
detention clause of the Immigration Act. Under new wording, aggravated felons
may be jailed pending deportation proceedings only if it can be shown they are a
danger to the community.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE; Fred Girard writes for The Detroit News

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              49 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                 June 20, 1991, Thursday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

U.S. AIDS immigration policy assailed

BYLINE: Kim Painter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 264 words

DATELINE: FLORENCE, Italy


The Bush administration is not popular at the 7th International Conference on
AIDS.

Scientists and activists from all over the world are upset about Washington's
recent backpedaling on a promise to allow unrestricted visits and immigration of
foreigners infected with the AIDS virus.

Many, including top government AIDS scientists, also are angry about a
last-minute decision to cut in half the number of federal researchers sent to
the conference.

Both decisions came in response to political pressure:

- The immigration-policy switch came after 40,000 people wrote officials to
protest the entry of infected foreigners.

- The cut in the conference delegation came after newspapers reported Washington
was spending $ 1.5 million to send 400 delegates to Florence.

''Once again the United States is acting as the ugly American,'' says Jeff Levi
of the AIDS Action Council. ''Some narrow-minded people think an international
conference abroad is a junket, while one held in the U.S. is worthy of worldwide
participation.''

Key groups plan to boycott next year's AIDS conference in Boston if the
immigration policy isn't changed. The 1992 conference is in danger of being
canceled or moved.

''I don't think there are people who like to travel specifically to spread a
disease,'' says Marvellous Mhloyi, a visiting scholar at Harvard University who
comes from Zimbabwe.

Also Wednesday: Health and Human Resources economist Fred Hellinger told the
conference the AIDS virus will cost the USA $ 5.8 billion this year, and the
yearly bill could reach $ 10.4 billion by 1994.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              50 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 4, 1991, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Lottery holds promise of citizenship for a few

BYLINE: Bruce Frankel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 630 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Enter the immigration-visa sweepstakes. Get a green card, stay as long as you
like, be among the lucky 40,000 to win a chance at U.S. citizenship,
hassle-free.

That's the offer to 16,000 Irish people and 24,000 others, including illegal
aliens already living in the USA, from 33 mostly European countries - all for
the price of postage. Theoretically, that is.

Tension is building, and thousands of hopefuls are devising strategies to win
the nation's second first-come, first-served immigration contest.

An immigration reform law passed by Congress last year includes a provision for
the visa giveaway. Details of the program are expected to be announced soon and
the mail-in date is likely to be this fall.

In Los Angeles, Tokyo-born Keiko Ito, 32, a graduate student, has plunked down
an $ 800 down payment to a lawyer who promises to improve her chances of
winning.

In New York, Joanne O'Connell, 22, an illegal Irish immigrant who works as a
legal secretary, is plotting a staggered mailing of 200 entries. She's hoping
one will hit the still-undesignated post office in Washington, D.C., right on
time. Applications will be marked chronologically as they arrive.

In Chicago, the Polish American Congress has been inundated with calls, mostly
from illegal immigrants. ''If our office was open 24 hours a day, we'd be
busy,'' says Illinois director Ewa Betka.

The group is processing letters and will fly someone to Washington to dump
thousands of applications into a mail slot at the appointed hour.

With no limit on the number of applications a person can send, State Department
officials expect more than the 1.4 million entries that swamped the post office
in 1986 when a similar ''lottery'' was held.

There isn't much mystery to why the Irish are getting the lion's share - 40% -
of the visas: the powerful Irish political caucus sponsored the bill.

Since 1965, when Congress scrapped country quotas in favor of reuniting the
families of recent immigrants, Hispanics and other non-Europeans have benefited
- while immigration from Europe has been virtually shut off.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., a bill sponsor, says the program ends an
''unjustifiable discrimination against immigrants from Ireland, Italy and many
other countries that have ... been among the greatest sources of our ...
heritage.''

Irish advocacy groups say the lottery gives hope to some of the 100,000 Irish
illegal immigrants who live at the mercy of low-paying employers, greedy
landlords, loan sharks and unscrupulous lawyers.

It ''will allow them to come out from the shadows,'' says Lisa Johnston of the
Irish Immigration Reform Movement.

William Fugazy, president of the national Italian Coalition, says: ''We haven't
gotten any immigrants into this country in 25 years. The tremendous contribution
of Italian immigrants has been sorely missed. We're thrilled.''

Not everyone is as ecstatic.

Dan Stein, executive director of Federation for American Immigration Reform,
characterizes the visa mail-in as an ''elitist sham.'' He says Irish ''illegals
in Boston may want a green card, but there are a lot of people in dire straits
... whose claim for humanitarian relief is a lot stronger.''

Says Cecilia Munoz, a policy analyst for the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic rights group: ''It's interesting that they worked out a way to help
Irish undocumented. We're very aware that people are unwilling to do the same
for Hispanics.''

Experts say the program won't affect immigration patterns for years - if ever.

But for O'Connell the effects of winning the lottery would be immediate: ''I can
get a bank card, insurance ... travel. I'm not stuck in New York.'' If she
loses, she says, she'll just try again in 1992 or 1993. ''It's worth it. I'm not
going back.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; color, Julie Stacey, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. State Department
(Bar graph); PHOTO; color, AP

CUTLINE: KENNEDY: Program ends 'unjustifiable discrimination'

SPECIAL REPORT; IMMIGRATION REFORM; Thousands of would-be U.S. citizens are
angling to win in the nation's second immigration lottery. A total of 40,000
entrants will get visas. But the law reserves most slots for the Irish and other
Europeans. A look at the lottery:

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              51 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 1, 1991, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Immigration quotas rise to 700,000 today

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt; Carol J. Castaneda; Carolyn Pesce

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 161 words


The most significant changes in U.S. immigration policy in 66 years take effect
today. The 1990 Immigration Act raises annual immigration quotas to 700,000 from
540,000, and creates a new ethnic-diversity preference for immigrants from
European nations like Ireland and Poland. Because the law allows in more skilled
workers and fewer unskilled ones, there may be a shortage of unskilled labor. An
entrepreneur program provides 10,000 visas for those who invest at least $ 1
million and create at least 10 jobs.

BECKWITH APPEAL: White supremacist Byron De La Beckwith must be returned to
Mississippi to stand trial on charges he murdered civil rights leader Medgar
Evers in 1963, the Tennessee Supreme Court said. Beckwith, 70, immediately asked
a federal judge to block extradition. Two earlier trials ended in hung juries.
Charges were dropped in 1969. He has been jailed since new evidence led to his
arrest Dec. 17 at his Signal Mountain, Tenn., home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, David Harrison, AP; PHOTO; b/w, AP

CUTLINE: BECKWITH: Seeks to block extradition CUTLINE: COLORADO WRECK: A
locomotive and several cars of a Southern Pacific freight train rest
precariously on mountainside track Monday after a rockslide sent two locomotives
and up to three rail cars plunging 500 feet down the mountain. Two crew members
died; two others jumped to safety. The wreck, 15 miles west of Boulder, Colo.,
forced Amtrak's California Zephyr to detour through Wyoming.

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              52 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 17, 1991, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Keep lid on immigration

BYLINE: Dan Stein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 315 words


The spectacle of millions of would-be immigrants chasing 40,000 ''green cards''
for the chance to live in America should highlight a more serious problem:
Hundreds of millions more want to come here. Since we can't take everyone, we
must answer these three questions:

How many to admit? Now it's nearly 800,000 a year - plus illegal entries. Unless
we change the law, the rate will increase through 2000 for a decade total of 15
million. Our generous historic average - 300,000 a year - would be best. At that
level, U.S. population could stabilize near 300 million.

Polls show Americans want all immigrant and refugee admissions under a ceiling.
We are in a profound recession and have an overabundance of semiskilled labor.
Twenty years of mismanaged immigration policy have already blighted the economic
prospects for the poorest citizens. Congress must reduce immigration
substantially.

Whom to admit? Nearly 90% of legal immigrants come because of whom they know,
not what they know. Our current nepotistic system favors family relationship
over merit. Chain migration reduces the skills composition of immigrants, which
places undue strain on heavily impacted states: California, Texas, Florida,
Illinois and New York.

Americans want a merit-based system that curtails family chain migration.

How to enforce the rules? Illegal immigration remains out of control; thousands
pour across our borders each night. Americans agree we need better border
security, a crackdown on phony documents and strong sanctions for employers
hiring illegal entrants.

Congress can pass all the bizarre lotteries, amnesties and investor schemes it
wants. But at a time when international migration is an explosive and volatile
issue worldwide, we don't need irresponsible gamesmanship. Congress should
listen to the people and give us the immigration limitations we want, need and
deserve.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate is on the nation's IMMIGRATION POLICY and
whether we should relax immigration laws.; OPPOSING VIEW; Congress should reduce
immigration substantially; the public wants limits.; Dan Stein, executive
director, Federation for American Immigration Reform.

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              53 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 21, 1991, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Immigration lottery winners getting good news

BYLINE: Sally Ann Stewart

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 480 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Immigration lawyer Bernie Wolfsdorf says he'd like to credit his legal skills
with turning his clients into immigration lottery winners, but admits ''there's
a luck factor at work here, too.''

A pretty sizable luck factor, from the look of things.

As results begin trickling in this week from the USA's largest ever immigration
lottery, 23 of Wolfsdorf's 153 clients have won permanent U.S. resident status.

''When I go to the casino, I never win,'' says Mathias Pellam, 28, who came here
from France two years ago. ''But this time, I win more than money.''

A month ago, thousands of hopeful illegal immigrants sent 15 million immigration
applications to the Merrifield, Va., post office for a chance at one of the
40,000 lottery slots.

''We really beat the odds,'' says Wolfsdorf, who made 150 copies of each
application.

''You couldn't even see the carpet,'' said clerk Lucy Kwan. ''Paper was
everywhere.''

''We had five suitcases and boxes, I mean cartons, stuffed full of paper,'' says
lawyer Michael Davis, who took them to Washington, D.C., and battled record
crowds in Merrifield.

''When you saw how many people were (at Merrifield) and mailing massive numbers
... we felt there was no way Postal Service workers could process them all in
time.''

So Davis began going to other post offices and mailing to Merrifield. ''I guess
we did something right.''

So did Sharon Rocklin, 27, a British citizen from South Africa six years ago.

''I had nothing to lose,'' she says. ''I haven't stopped smiling since I found
out I won.''

''It hasn't been easy,'' says Rocklin. She worked as a New York nanny before
spending her last $ 200 on moving to Los Angeles. ''I'm definitely, absolutely
becoming an American citizen. I haven't come this far to leave.''

Same goes for Latvian immigrant Anne Chulskaya, a University of California, Los
Angeles research technician.

Chulskaya, 37, came to visit her cousin, actor Ed Asner, months before the 1989
fall of the Berlin Wall.

''We came just like visitors, but then I wanted to stay in freedom,'' she says.

Elsewhere, winners expressed similar sentiments:

''I can go to school, get better employment,'' says Belfast native Sharon
McComb, 21, of Long Beach, N.Y., who works as a nanny.

''It's opened up a whole new life to me,'' says Chris Purcell, 40, a County
Kerry, Ireland, native living in Louisville.

''I've been living like a fugitive for 10 months now,'' says Purcell, who mailed
300 applications. ''I've been blessed.''

Mary Horigan, 25, a part-time cashier at a Manhattan diner who emigrated from
County Tipperary, Ireland, says winning will ensure a better future for her son
John, 2.

''Now, I'll be able to get a better job, go to college, apply for credit
cards,'' says Horigan. ''We never had medical insurance. Now, I can apply for
that. It's amazing what it means.''

Contributing: Bruce Frankel

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Chris Martinez, AP

CUTLINE: WINNERS CIRCLE: Immigration lawyer Bernie Wolfsdorf stands with
clients, from left, Mathias Pellam, of Paris; Sharon Rocklin, a British citizen
from South Africa; and Anne Chulskaya of Latvia.

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              54 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 4, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

International travel clogs airports;
Long lines await many at customs

BYLINE: Lori Sharn; Sally Ann Stewart

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 640 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The booming international travel business has airports, customs inspectors and
immigration officers struggling to cope.

''Customs inspection staffing is stretched as thin as it will go,'' says James
Gordon of the Airport Operators Council International. ''They can't handle more
flights at a lot of airports without delays, deterioration in quality of
service, or simple denials of (service).''

Between 1980-1988, the number of passengers boarding all international flights
on U.S. carriers grew about 42 percent.

Though international guidelines allow 45 minutes to process passengers, it can
take up to two hours at busy airports like Los Angeles and Honolulu.

But both the U.S. Customs Service and the Immigration and Naturalization Service
say they meet or beat the 45-minute standard in most airports.

At New York's Kennedy airport, the USA's busiest international gateway, it takes
about 30 minutes to process passengers, and no more than an hour during peak
travel times, says spokesman Tom Middlemiss.

But passengers at the busy Los Angeles International Airport say the process is
slower.

Civil engineer Aiken Lin says he stepped off a 10-hour flight from Taiwan into a
line so long ''it was like I was at Disneyland.'' Lin and his wife, Daisy,
waited 1 1/2 hours in line before being waved through. They were then selected
for a 15-minute luggage search.

''There were just three (service lines) windows open,'' says Daisy Lin. ''And
there was no air conditioning so you couldn't breathe.''

About 70 million people flew to or from the USA in 1988. That number is expected
to keep growing. The problems:

- The U.S. Customs Service can't hire more inspectors, although the workload has
increased 15 percent a year, says Robert Bartol, director of passenger
processing.

Passengers pay a $ 5 user fee to customs, but that money goes to the U.S.
Treasury, not for more personnel.

- Customs inspectors are limited to $ 25,000 a year in overtime. As a result,
two late-night flights sought by Mexicana Airlines to Los Angeles have been
denied.

More customs and immigration officers were added in Orlando, Fla., after a
delayed jet from London was diverted to Tampa for customs handling.

- Many airports need new buildings. Honolulu's international facility, designed
for 3,000 passengers a morning, saw an estimated 10,000 people a morning over
the holidays, says Jeanne Schultz, head of the governor's international aviation
task force. The first phase of a new international terminal is scheduled for
1992.

- Many flights from Asia, where curfews prevent flights from leaving late at
night, arrive almost simultaneously.

Bartol says customs is implementing plans to ''work smarter.'' The strategy, now
used in at least seven airports, includes a multiagency automated ''look-out''
system to screen names, more selectivity in choosing passengers to examine and
machine-readable passports and visas.

TEXT OF GRAPHIC

Foreign travel booming

The number of passengers boarding all international flights on U.S. carriers is
increasing (about half of international travel to USA is on foreign airlines):
2000       65.3

Source: Federal Aviation Administration

Visitors top airports
Top 10 cities for international air arrivals in 1988, excluding passengers from
Canada:
New York City         8,734,000
Miami                 4,735,000
Los Angeles           3,362,000
Honolulu              1,963,000
San Francisco         1,529,000
Chicago               1,398,000
Dallas/Fort Worth     1,035,000
San Juan              1,001,000
Houston                 897,000
Boston                  895,000

COMPLETE TEXT NOT AVAILABLE
Source: U.S. Department of Justice/Immigration and Naturalization Service

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, Marcy Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: Federal Aviation
Administration, Source: U.S. Department of Justice, Immigration and
Naturalization Service (graph, chart); PHOTO; b/w, Bob Riha Jr., Gamma Liaison
(Muneyoshi Hanba, wife Haruko, child Miho)

CUTLINE: CHECKING IN: Muneyoshi Hanba, wife Haruko and child Miho, meet with an
immigration agent after arriving at the Los Angeles airport from Tokyo, Japan.
They will spend one week in the USA.

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              55 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 18, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

HAWAII

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 73 words

DATELINE: HONOLULU


Japanese movie star Shintaro Katsu, 58, faces immigration hearing today after
arrest, guilty plea on drug charges. Airport customs officials found cocaine,
marijuana in his underwear. He was fined $ 1,000, paid $ 350 court costs. ...
NANAKULI - State revived plan to build 400 single-family homes, 120 townhouses
on 53-acre state-owned Kahakai Nani site this spring. Project was stalled in '76
when original developer went bankrupt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              56 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 25, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

The students don't need this 'protection'

BYLINE: Bruce Fein, Guest columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 416 words


Bruce Fein is a columnist for Legal Times and The Washington Times.

 GREAT FALLS, Va. - Congress is Jesuitically perched to override President
Bush's veto of the Emergency Chinese Immigration Relief Act of 1989. It
professes a humanitarian impulse toward Chinese students, but that profession
deceives more than junk-bond circulars and conceals the likely anti-
humanitarian results.

Following last June's Tiananmen Square killings, the Bush administration
initiated action, under existing immigration laws, guaranteeing that not a
single one of 40,000 Chinese students here would be forced home if either lives
or liberty would be endangered.

The administration waived the requirement that foreign students return home for
two years before seeking immigrant status here. It gave the Chinese students
employment opportunities ordinarily denied non-immigrants. It made asylum
available to those with a well-founded fear of persecution based on political or
religious beliefs, including opposition to Beijing policies favoring abortion,
sterilization and one-child families.

These initiatives have been stupendously successful. As of Jan. 12, work
authorizations had been granted 2,779 students, 87 had received permanent-
resident status with 108 cases pending, 225 had received temporary alterations
in immigration status that safeguarded against deportation, and 70 had received
waivers from the two-year foreign residence rule before immigrant status could
be granted.

Neither Rep. Nancy Pelosi nor any of her hundreds of congressional co- adjutors
have unearthed a single student for whom the Bush initiatives have been
insufficiently protective of life or liberty. Moreover, the act so passionately
embraced by Pelosi offers less humanitarian protection than the president's
administrative actions.

The Pelosi legislation gratuitously insults China; nothing comparable followed
the Ayatollah Khomeini's barbarities in 1979, despite the presence of thousands
of Iranian students in the USA. Members of Congress have bombastically boasted
that the act punishes the Chinese government for gross misbehavior, but that
condescension guarantees adverse responses. The Chinese historically have
resented foreign denigration as exemplified by the Chinese Exclusion Act and the
Boxer Rebellion.

And Beijing predictably will resist offering its vital cooperation in seeking to
crush the vile Khmer Rouge in Cambodia and Kim Il Sung in North Korea. Is that
consequence humanitarian?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w (Bruce Fein)

TYPE: Opinion

Ribbon Label; FACE-OFF; OVERRIDING THE PRESIDENT'S VETO; 2

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              57 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 8, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Transfer of INS offical assailed

BYLINE: Julie Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 254 words


Houston immigration chief Ronald Parra, one of only two Hispanics among 33
district directors in the Immigration and Naturalization Service, is being
transferred in a move that has him and local Hispanics crying foul.

Parra, 42, is fighting reassignment to head the St. Paul, Minn., district, which
has 100 fewer staff members than the 265-person Houston office.

INS Commissioner Gene McNary says Parra's relationship with regional superiors
''had deteriorated.'' He refused further comment. Parra also declined comment -
citing an INS policy established two months ago by McNary prohibiting public
statements by INS staff.

''He should be promoted, not transferred,'' says Leonel Castillo, a former INS
commissioner. More than 50 Hispanic business leaders and a group of immigration
lawyers have written letters asking McNary to reconsider.

They credit Parra with clearing up backlogs, operating an amnesty program that
attracted 50,000 applicants and easing long-standing tensions between the INS
and immigration interest groups.

''I've seen tremendous improvement in the organization and the functions of the
office ... ,'' said Judith Cooper of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

Parra was criticized earlier this year for appearing at a news conference with a
conservative immigration lobbying group. And federal judge James DeAnda
chastised him for blaming the courts for an 18-month waiting period for
citizenship applicants. But the INS says his transfer is not connected to those
incidents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newsmakers

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              58 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 17, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

DEBATE;
Punish employers for bias in hiring

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 526 words


What's in a name? If it's Rosa, or Juan, or Chen, nothing sweet in the U.S. job
market.

That's what the General Accounting Office told Congress last month in its final
report on the impact of the landmark 1986 Immigration Reform Act:

Employers are discriminating against U.S. citizens and others with a legal right
to work here if they have Hispanic or Asian names, or if they sound and look
foreign.

That finding has created an uproar among some civil rights organizations. It's
also provided new ammunition to businesses that always opposed immigration
reform.

As you can read across this page, critics of the 1986 immigration law want
Congress to repeal sanctions against employers who knowingly hire illegal
aliens.

Those sanctions have led to $ 17 million in fines against employers. That's
enough, say the critics, to make employers discriminate against people with
foreign accents, foreign looks or Hispanic and Asian names.

There's no doubt about the discrimination.

According to the GAO, 10% of employers say they are discriminating against
people based on their looks or accent and 9% say they are hiring only people
born in the USA because of the 1986 law.

And in Chicago and San Diego, Anglo-appearing persons with no accent received
33% more interviews and 52% more job offers than Hispanic-looking and sounding
persons, despite being equally qualified.

Those results mirror studies by a California employment commission and a New
York immigration task force.

Such blatant discrimination must end. But wiping out employer sanctions won't
eliminate that hideous bias. It will wipe out immigration reform.

The law's aim was simple: To stop the exploitation by unscrupulous businesses of
foreign laborers and to slow the flood of illegal immigrants who tax our
resources here.
By giving 3.1 million aliens a right to U.S. citizenship, the reform kept
businesses from threatening to deport them if they didn't do the dirtiest work
at dirt-cheap wages.

And by making employers responsible for whom they hire, the act made it harder
for employers to blackmail workers by imposing sanctions. That helps dry up jobs
that lure illegal aliens here.

So sanctions seem to be working. U.S. border patrols turned back 855,315 illegal
aliens in 1989, compared with 1.6 million in 1986 - a drop of 2,000 illegal
aliens a day.

But the immigration law's provision to halt discrimination against legal
residents hasn't been fully enforced.

The office created by the 1986 act to ensure fair employment has no branches in
California or Texas, our highest immigration sites. So through February, it had
received only 836 complaints and assessed less than $ 50,000 in fines.

That office must be expanded. It must educate new, legal immigrants about their
rights. And Congress must spend more to educate employers about their
responsibilities.

The USA must not scrap sanctions. It must enforce all of the law's provisions so
everyone is treated fairly.

Discrimination by any name stinks. It's illegal. And it must end.

TEXT OF CARTOON
ACME MFG. Co.
BORDER PATROL
PERSONNEL DEPT.
LABORERS WANTED
THIS IS OUR FALL-BACK POSITION!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON; b/w, David Seavey, USA TODAY (Drawing, border patrol guards
outside office)

TYPE: Opinion

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              59 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 17, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Making employer pay won't stop hiring bias

BYLINE: Warren A. Witte, Guest columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 470 words


Warren A. Witte is associate executive secretary of the American Friends Service
Committee.

 PHILADELPHIA - Congress faces a moment of truth in the next few weeks. It can
choose to renew its commitment to protect minority workers' civil rights, or it
can allow a flawed immigration policy to continue, extending the discrimination
caused by the law over the past three years.

Pragmatism and the nation's ideals should lead our representatives to repeal the
employer-sanctions provisions of the 1986 immigration law.

The recent General Accounting Office report on employer sanctions makes it clear
beyond dispute that the Immigration Reform and Control Act, designed to protect
the jobs of U.S. workers, has instead created widespread employment bias against
some of the very people it was to help.

The law's threats of fines and imprisonment against those who hire ineligible
workers, combined with its complicated document inspection requirements, have
led 19% of employers to hedge on the side of discrimination against job seekers
who look or sound foreign.

Proposals to reform the sanctions provisions hold no guarantees. Their
proponents are willing to allow the current law to continue causing
discrimination while we give their remedies a try.

The most heralded option, a universal identity card for everyone in this country
who is eligible to work, is ominous in its similarity to papers required in
totalitarian states. Beyond its threat to everyone's civil liberties, we can
predict who would be required to produce the card most frequently: the same
documented immigrants or ''foreign-looking'' people that the current plan
discriminates against.

Arguments for attempting to reform the law would be stronger if anyone could
show that the law was achieving its objective of ''saving American jobs.'' The
GAO study doesn't pretend to test whether it has succeeded. It merely argues
weakly that the law ''has apparently reduced illegal immigration.''

So the argument comes down to whether we should tolerate more government- caused
discrimination against U.S. minority workers for the sake of a law whose
effectiveness in one key area is, in the GAO's words, ''inconclusive'' and whose
performance on its main promise has not even been examined.

The way to reduce immigration of Central Americans, Haitians and Mexicans to the
USA lies not in a cruel law that discriminates against minority workers while it
seeks to starve immigrants and refugees out of this country by denying them
work. It lies, rather, in addressing the powerful forces of war, repression and
grinding poverty that push people from their homelands.

The way to protect citizens' jobs is through strict labor-law enforcement that
would remove the profit some U.S. employers now gain through exploitation of
immigrants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w (Warren A. White)

TYPE: Opinion

An opposing view

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              60 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 4, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

HAWAII

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 80 words

DATELINE: HONOLULU


Federal judge decides today if Stefan Paal lied, committed visa fraud when he
denied to immigration officials that he was former SS guard who persecuted
Auschwitz prisoners during WWII. Paal - suspected war criminal, U.S. officials
say - was arrested in May during stop here. ... MAKIKI - Temporary home of main
Hawaii State Library opens today on old campus of Kapiolani Community College. $
14 million renovation of downtown building is expected to be completed in '92.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              61 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 24, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Democracy at home may block asylum bids

BYLINE: Jeanne DeQuine; Kevin Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 426 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A group of Nicaraguan exiles heads to court today in an effort to block a U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service policy that may mean deportation for some
immigrants who got political asylum in the United States.

Targeted for possible deportation: Immigrants from Nicaragua, Panama, Poland,
Hungary - all countries embracing democracy in recent months - who have not yet
gained permanent residence status.

The INS policy surfaced when an internal memo became public last week.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service says the reason for granting asylum -
proving a well-founded fear of persecution if they return to their homelands -
may no longer exist.

''That is real bureaucratic double talk,'' says Robert Boyer, who will file a
lawsuit today for Nicaraguan exiles.

The issue is raising fears in Miami, home to more than 100,000 Nicaraguans, many
of whom have received or are seeking political asylum.

''The economy and the politics in Nicaragua are still very bad,'' says Mario
Castillo Nunez, 43, who left Nicaragua in 1987 and lives here with his wife and
four children.

He does not believe that Nicaragua is a democracy simply because U.S.- backed
Violetta Chamorro won the presidency in February.

''The Chamorristas and the Sandinistas are still violently fighting,'' Castillo
says.

Says banker Roberto Arguello, a Nicaraguan native: ''The situation in Nicaragua
has changed on paper but not in reality. Where are Nicaraguans going to go?
There are no houses, no businesses. The measures are very unfair.''

Of the four countries, Nicaraguans have received the most asylum applications
and would be the most affected, INS officials say.

''It's a clarification of ... existing law,'' says INS spokesman Richard Kenney.
''We're saying that ... we have to review an (immigrant's) status. The policy
isn't limited to any nationality.''

Kenney says it could be five years before the cases are heard because of
backlogs.

In Chicago - home of half the 4,000 Polish immigrants affected by the ruling -
''the fear is terrible,'' says Roman Pucinski, president of Illinois chapter of
the Polish-American Congress.

''These people sold their homes, sold their furniture in Poland; they thought
they were going to start a new life in America,'' says Pucinski. ''Now all that
may be wiped out.''

''In Poland, we were scared about the government. Here, I felt free. Now, this
is the same situation as Poland,'' says Dan Malinowski, 31, who has been in the
USA for 2 1/2 years. ''I feel like someone is looking for me again. I'm
scared.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              62 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 26, 1990, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Probert challenge avoids jail

BYLINE: Kevin Allen

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 12C

LENGTH: 138 words


A federal judge kept the Detroit Red Wings' Bob Probert out of jail and put him
in the middle of a legal donnybrook with constitutional ramifications far beyond
his case.

Probert, 25, successfully challenged a U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service statute under which he would have been jailed while appealing his
deportation to Canada.

U.S. District Judge Horace Gilmore said the statute is unconstitutional because
it calls for detainment without the possibility of a bond hearing.

He said Probert could be detained only if he is proved to be a threat to flee or
a risk to society. Michigan INS Director Jim Montgomery said no bond hearing
will be held.

''This is just getting over one more hurdle,'' Probert said. ''There is a large
one yet to come. Until that is over with, I can't get on with my life.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              63 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 1, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

How immigration law works

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 301 words


Comparing new law with existing law:
 Existing law                    Effective Oct. 1, 1991
-  No limit on                   465,000 immigrants
immigrants with par              with parents, spouses,
ents, spouses, children          children in the USA;
in the USA; 482,000              480,000 starting
allotted in 1989-90.             Oct. 1, 1994.
   -  54,000 visas for people       -  140,000 visas for people
with specific job skills.        with specific job skills.
   -  Limit of 20,000 regular       -  Limit of 20,000 regular
visas from one country.          visas from one country.

The new law also allows
- 55,000 visas a year for three years for spouses, children of people who got
amnesty under the 1986 immigration law.
- 40,000 visas a year for three years for people from 35 countries in Europe,
Africa, South America; 16,000 of them are reserved for Irish.
- 55,000 visas a year starting Oct. 1, 1994 to be allocated first to people from
countries under-represented in the most recent years.

 Allocation of job-based visas
How the 140,000 visas will be allocated for people with specific job skills:
- 40,000 for priority workers, extraordinary ability, managers and univerity
professors.
- 40,000 for exceptional ability, advanced degrees or equivalent.
- 40,000 for skilled and unskilled workers, with limit of 10,000 on unskilled
workers.
- 10,000 for investors who can guarantee setting up $ 1 million businesses to
employ at least 10 workers in a city or $ 500,000 businesses that hire five or
more workers in a rural area.
- 10,000 for others, including foreign workers for U.S. companies abroad and the
CIA.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Accompanies; OPENING DOOR TO HOPE; Immigrants 'waiting for this a long time';
New face of U.S. to be more global

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              64 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 13, 1989, Friday, FINAL EDITION

'No room at inn,' but Nicaraguans flock to Miami

BYLINE: Jeanne DeQuine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 234 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The wave of refugees came after a Texas judge ruled they could leave squalid
camps where they awaited immigration proceedings. A federal court Wednesday
continued that ruling until Jan. 31.

That's a problem for Miami, where city manager Cesar Odio said: ''The inn is
full.''

Sergio Castillo came to Miami by bus after crossing the Rio Grande Sunday:
''Throughout Mexico, they kept telling us about Bobby Maduro stadium.''

But city officials have closed Miami Stadium to new arrivals. They must evacuate
260 refugees already there by Jan. 25, when baseball's Baltimore Orioles begin
spring training.

A new shelter is being readied, but isn't large enough.

As many as 3,000 refugees are expected in Miami within the next week. Frustrated
Dade County officials went to Texas to stem the exodus.

Other problems:

- Doctors at Jackson Memorial Hospital, a public facility, must provide
emergency care to all as well as pre-natal care.

- Police have thrown up their hands: ''We don't know what is going to happen,''
said spokesman Armando Villorin.

- Neighbors see a repeat of 1980, when 125,000 refugees came from Cuba. ''It's
going to be Mariel II,'' said Enos Schera of Citizens of Dade United.

All Lezama Rivas, 54, and his wife, Noemi Hernandez, 29 - who left seven
children in Managua - want is shelter.

''We'll sleep anywhere,'' he says. ''We've been through much worse to get
here.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              65 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 20, 1989, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Refugees rush to beat deadline;
Applicants will have to stay put

BYLINE: Laurence Jolidon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 280 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, Texas


After midnight, Immigration and Naturalization Service officials will reinstate
a policy requiring those seeking political asylum to await final decisions on
their cases before leaving the south Texas area.

With 2,000 immigrants crossing the border here each week, INS director Alan
Nelson today is expected to announce a streamlined process for reviewing asylum
applications.

Details of the plan were unknown, but Nelson has asked the State Department to
station a representative here to rapidly issue opinions on asylum.

INS spokeswoman Virginia Kice said ''with a State Department person on site we
could turn around most cases in one day.'' Those denied asylum would be detained
immediately, then deported.

Political asylum cases for Central Americans often take months. Most are denied.

The recent tide of immigrants overwhelmed the main INS office in nearby
Harlingen, forcing the agency to move its processing center to a minimum
security detention facility near here.

While some residents complain the immigrants are a nuisance, others come to
their aid.

Through the weekend, as immigrants stood in line and even slept outdoors in
second-hand clothes and Red Cross blankets, church volunteers fed them, gave
them rides into town and arranged for homes to take them in.

''We expected people at the border aiming rifles at us, but the American people
have been very kind,'' said Marcio Nunez, a Honduran.

Carl Christensen, a physics and math teacher in nearby Port Isabel, served hot
meals.

''I think most people just want to put this whole problem out of their minds,''
he said. ''We will all need help sometime. There is obviously a human need
here.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Accompanies; Who is arriving and what happens to them

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              66 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 21, 1989, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Stricter asylum policies enacted;
Plan adds personnel, cuts delay

BYLINE: Laurence Jolidon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 291 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Texas


Refugee rights workers and immigration lawyers here attacked the new plan,
saying it deprives the immigrants of due process and will drive more of them
underground to be cheated and exploited.

The plan will:

- Provide housing - in tents, if necessary - for up to 5,000 immigrants while
asylum claims are pending.

They will be required to remain in the area until a decision is made, unlike
thousands of earlier immigrants who were allowed to forward their cases to other
locations.

- Add more than 200 examiners and clerks from the INS and the State Department
to the Rio Grande Valley office to expedite asylum cases.

INS spokeswoman Virginia Kice said, ''We hope to have same-day service for most
claims.''

- Beef up the regional detention center to handle those denied asylum, who could
immediately be deported.

- Nearly double - from 375 to 644 - the Border Patrol contingent for the
district, the biggest entry point for aliens fleeing war and poverty in Central
America.

Nelson said the plan would cut down the growing number of ''fraudulent'' and
''frivolous'' asylum claims. More than 50,000 Central Americans sought political
asylum in 1988. Most were denied.

Local officials applauded the plan. Brownsville Mayor Ygnacio Garza said he was
''very pleased the federal government has stepped in.''

Linda Yanez, an immigration lawyer, said the plan will make the political asylum
process ''a meaningless exercise'' carried out in an ''atmosphere of
intimidation'' by an inexperienced staff.

Lawyer Mark Schneider, who runs a refugee support agency, predicts asylum
requests will plummet as immigrants realize the requests will lead to detention
and deportation. ''The stock in smugglers is going to go up,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              67 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 13, 1989, Thursday, FIRST EDITION

NATIONLINE

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 252 words


ALSO WEDNESDAY ...

- ST. PAUL, Minn.: Immigration officials said they won't appeal an agency
judge's decision to allow Dutch visitor Hans Paul Verhoef, 31, to be in the USA.
He was detained under a law that denies entry to people with AIDS. Gay-rights
activists and others objected to his exclusion.

- LOS ANGELES: Mayor Tom Bradley, 71, won re-election to an unprecedented fifth
term with 52 percent of the vote. Runner-up councilman Nate Holden, 59, got 28
percent in the election in the USA's second-largest city.

- YORK, Pa.: Two state troopers were killed when their Bell-Jet Ranger police
helicopter struck a 34,000-volt power line, exploded and crashed into the
Susquehanna River. They had been searching for a suicide victim.

- PEORIA, Ill.: Joe Pickens, 34, a homeless vagrant, was charged with nine
counts of murder after admitting he set fire to an apartment house Tuesday - the
city's deadliest blaze - police said. Seven of the victims were children.

- SAN FRANCISCO: A federal appeals court rejected efforts by a California
medical firm to seize Soviet property in the USA to settle a libel and contract
dispute with the Soviet Union. The judges said foreign governments can't be sued
for libel and the contract dispute wasn't settled.

- RICHLAND, Wash.: A barge carrying the USA's first commercial nuclear reactor
arrived at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation, completing an 8,000-mile voyage from
Pennslyvania to bury the device.

Contributing: Robert Ankeny and David Kocieniewski

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Nationline

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              68 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 16, 1989, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

New life, not money, awarded in visa lottery

BYLINE: Marilyn Greene

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 197 words


Over the next several weeks, names and numbers will be matched at a rate of
1,000 a day, and those whose numbers come up will get word through U.S.
embassies.

After that, the winners will be interviewed and screened. If all goes well, they
get visas to enter the USA.

State Department spokeswoman Frances Jones says the 20,000 immigrant slots were
added for the benefit of people in countries with low numbers emigrating to the
U.S. Among the countries excluded were the United Kingdom, Mexico, El Salvador
and Taiwan.

Notice of the visa lottery was relayed to citizens of 162 countries by radio,
television, newspapers and messengers.

The lottery produced mob scenes at U.S. embassies and consulates worldwide.

About 4 million people responded and 3.2 million applications were accepted for
the drawing.

Current immigration laws favor people with relatives already living here, Jones
says.

But Berman objects to Senate bills introduced last year that ''treat legal
immigrants like a plague instead of something good for the country,'' aide
Kenneth Segel says.

''People who want to come here are full of energy and drive - and this country
was built by such people.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              69 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 20, 1989, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

She's still without a country

BYLINE: Paul Clancy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 234 words


As far as immigration officials are concerned, writer Margaret Randall is a
woman without a country.

Her status remained a tangled web Monday as the U.S. Supreme Court declined to
review her appeal.

Randall was baking bread in Albuquerque - where she lives next to her aging
parents - when she heard the news. ''This is my home, this is where I was born,
this is where I grew up,'' she says.  ''I simply feel there's room in a person's
life to come home. ...to pull the threads of your life together.''

A writer who gave up her citizenship in 1961, Randall traveled extensively in
Latin America and wrote sympathetically about some socialist practices.

Now 52 and a mother of four who has taught at several universities, she returned
to the USA in 1984, but can't regain her citizenship and is threatened with
deportation.

Reason: Government officials say her writings ''go far beyond mere dissent.''

Constitutional lawyers are vigorously fighting for Randall, whose supporters
include authors Norman Mailer, Arthur Miller, Toni Morrison and Kurt Vonnegut.

Randall grew up in Albuquerque, married a Mexican national and went to his
country in 1961. To get a better job, she became a Mexican citizen.

She later traveled to Cuba and Nicaragua and wrote about women's issues.

An appeals court declined to rule on Randall's citizenship request - turned down
by the government - saying it was premature to raise constitutional issues.

Randall says her legal limbo is ''painful,'' but she'll continue her fight. ''Do
we have a First Amendment that protects all kinds of opinions or don't we?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, AP (Margaret Randall)

CUTLINE: RANDALL: Hopes to regain citizenship she gave up in 1961

TYPE: Newsmakers

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              70 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    July 26, 1989, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

LETTERLINE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 221 words



California: No more room
I am writing to express my dismay with the nation's present immigration policy.
According to the 1987 Census Report, there are 32.5 million Americans living in
poverty. Our freeways, schools and hospitals are overcrowded, and our social
welfare system is being stretched to the limit. This comes at a time when the
country is facing the daunting task of dealing with our mounting federal and
foreign trade deficits.  Yet, in the face of these problems, the USA continues
to let in over 2.5 million legal and illegal immigrants a year. The Senate
recently voted 97-0 to further increase these numbers. America, wake up. We can
no longer afford to take care of our own poor and homeless, let alone the rest
of the world's unfortunates. Gary Duncan Burbank

Texas: Gambling man? So what?
So Pete Rose is accused of gambling. Big deal. Should we get excited over this
in a land where states conduct lotteries and churches sponsor bingo? If Rose is
convicted, will the baseball commissioner tell us that his baseball heroics
never occurred? Norman Carpenter San Antonio

Georgia: 'Frightening' votes
The recent congressional vote on a flag-burning constitutional amendment reminds
me of the congressional vote on the Gulf of Tonkin resolution. These ''me, too''
votes are frightening. Andrew Mullin Columbus

Virginia: Asking for trouble
Hey, buddy. Burn our country's flag in front of me, and I'll exercise my right
to free speech and slap the hell out of you. Mitch Springer Fort Eustis

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Inquiry; Letterline

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              71 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 28, 1989, Friday, FIRST EDITION

Writer wins right to stay in USA

BYLINE: Darcy De Leon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 231 words



Author Margaret Randall - ecstatic over winning a 4 1/2-year battle against
deportation Thursday - says she is eager to visit her children in Mexico and
France.

''I'm overjoyed,'' said Randall, an Albuquerque native. ''I saw the children
last August ... when they came here. There are no prospects for them coming here
for several years.''

In a 3-2 ruling, the U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals said Randall remained a
U.S. citizen after becoming a citizen of Mexico in 1967.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service claimed Randall, 52, applied for
citizenship as a political protest. She had returned to the United States in
1984, and her deportation hearings began in 1986.

The appeals panel said the INS should not have considered her politics.
Randall's lawyer, David Cole, said the ruling was ''sort of a nice rebuke to the
INS.''

Government officials have said her writings ''go far beyond mere dissent.''

Randall, who spent 15 years in Cuba and Nicaragua, has written extensively about
social change and revolution in Third World countries.

She married Mexican national, Sergio Mondragon, and moved to Mexico in 1961.
Randall says she became a Mexican citizen to find work when the couple separated
and Mondragon refused to support her.

The author of The Shape of Red: Insider Outsider Reflections, is seeking a
publisher for a The T Room, ''about personal and political invasion.''

She was represented by the New York-based Center for Constitutional Rights, a
private civil liberties group.

Other supporters include authors Norman Mailer, Toni Morrison, and Kurt
Vonnegut.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Jim Colburn, Photoreporters (Margaret Randall)

CUTLINE: RANDALL: Writer an outspoken critic of U.S. policy

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              72 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 30, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

NATIONLINE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 162 words


Haitian refugees attack Florida center

About 1,000 Haitian refugees Sunday crashed through a gate and tried to free
friends at an illegal alien detention center 25 miles south of Miami,
authorities said. Police stopped them before anyone was hurt. ''This is the
closest we've come to a serious confrontation,'' said Immigration and
Naturalization Service District Director Richard Smith. Some detainees have
spent years at the Krome Service Processing Center awaiting rulings on their
asylum claims.

BOMB PROBE: A mail bomb Friday at the Christian Broadcasting Network at Virginia
Beach, Va., has many similarities to one that exploded in an interdominational
church in Lakewood, Texas, in January, federal investigator Paul Lyon said
Sunday. Both bombs are believed to have originated in the Fayetteville and
Bladen County areas of North Carolina. The bomb Friday, addressed to Rev. Pat
Robertson, injured a security guard when it exploded in the mail room.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, UPI (Pat Robertson); PHOTO; b/w, AP (Fires-Forest fires,
Roger Summers)

CUTLINE: ROBERTSON: Mail bomb meant for him CUTLINE: HOT WORK: Roger Summers
battles a wind-whipped forest fire that destroyed 10,000 acres in the central
Pennsylvania mountains near Renovo. Rain helped control the blaze. It was the
state's worst single fire since the 1930s.

TYPE: Nationline

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              73 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 23, 1992, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Refugees need not apply

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 270 words


Walk for a while in Jairo Jonathan Elias Zacarias' shoes.

In 1987, the then 18-year-old Guatemalan was on the horns of a dilemma - be
murdered by Guatemalan guerrillas or succumb to their demand to join them and
perhaps see the government retaliate against his family.

Zacarias didn't want to take sides in the ongoing civil war. So he did what
Europeans centuries ago did to escape civil strife. He fled to the land of
freedom and justice - the USA.

At the discretion of the U.S. attorney general, the USA can grant refugee status
to aliens who come here out of ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' for their
race, religion, social group, nationality - or political opinion.

Zacarias had ''a well-founded fear.'' But immigration officials disagreed and
moved to deport him.

On Tuesday, the Supreme Court upheld that potential death sentence.

Justice Antonin Scalia wrote that Zacarias' refusal to take sides was not
''political opinion.'' And federal law, he said, requires that persecution be
based on the victim's political opinion, not his persecutors'. Zacarias was
being persecuted, he argued, only because he refused to fight with the
guerrillas.

So much for the politics of middle-of-the-roaders. And pacifists, beware!

The hardest truth that the ruling can't hide is that Zacarias faces death if he
is deported. If he's killed, Guatemala's guerrillas will have a new recruiting
poster: ''Even the Supreme Court says, 'You can run but you can't hide!' ''

In Guatemala, Zacarias was damned if he did and damned if he didn't. Now, thanks
to the Supreme Court, he is simply damned. So is justice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; On another topic, USA TODAY condemns deporting a refugee
threatened by guerrillas with death.

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              74 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 3, 1992, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Critics of U.S. policy see racist overtones

BYLINE: James Harney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 319 words


Critics accused the Bush administration of racism Sunday for forcing Haitian
refugees to return to their strife-torn homeland against their will.

''It is very clear to us that the U.S. government doesn't want blacks in their
country,'' says Roland Dorancy, executive director of Miami's Haitian Refugee
Center.

''Our treatment of the Haitians is unconscionable,'' says Cecelia Munoz of the
National Committee on Concerns of Hispanics and Blacks. Munoz says the
administration seems more sympathetic to white immigrants from eastern European
countries.

''The reason there is less sympathy for the plight of Haitians than there would
be for ... eastern Europeans is because they're poor and black,'' she says.

Stephen Legomsky, an immigration law professor at Washington University in St.
Louis, says racism also may explain why there hasn't been a greater outcry over
the deportations.

The public ''would never stand for this if the boat people were Europeans,'' he
says.

Legomsky says the United States has ''been taking in approximately 50,000 Soviet
refugees each year with very little difficulty, although Haitians have seen a
much higher level of violence in their country.''

The charge of racism is disputed by the Bush administration, which says Haitians
are being deported solely because they do not qualify for political asylum.

President Bush defends U.S. actions as part of a ''fair policy'' aimed at
preventing a hazardous - and fruitless - boat trip from Haiti to Florida.

''I don't want a policy that acts as a magnet to risk people's lives,'' he said.

Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
backs Bush.

''The ocean and the sharks ... claim far more lives than the junta ever could,''
he says.

The United States has admitted nearly 140,000 Haitians since 1980, Stein says.
''Our immigration policy does not discriminate against Haitians.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

See main story; 'In the long run, it's better' // Haitians fearful, yet resigned

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              75 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 5, 1992, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Goal: To be a U.S. citizen // Man with Down Syndrome can't pass citizenship test

BYLINE: Desda Moss

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 424 words


Michael Wu wants desperately to be a U.S. citizen. He's hard-working and
patriotic, but one thing is holding him back.

Wu, a 25-year-old immigrant from Taiwan, has Down syndrome. Despite hours of
study and six attempts, the Mira Mesa, Calif., man can't pass the naturalization
exam.

''The test is just too hard for Michael,'' says his mother, Caroline, frustrated
at seeing her youngest son fail repeatedly.

Even Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman Verne Jervis - who calls
the test ''necessary and fair'' - says, ''I don't doubt there are U.S. citizens
who couldn't answer the questions very well.''

Now the Wus are pinning their hopes on Congress, which could pass special
legislation allowing Wu to skip the test.

Since he came to the USA in 1980, he's seen his parents and two brothers become
citizens.

Caroline Wu has coached her son each time he's taken the exam between 1985 and
1989. She grills him on the names of the original 13 colonies - ''Always he
forgets Massachusetts'' - and makes him memorize dates and the names of
presidents.

They study the flag in their living room, going over what its stars and stripes
represent.

The questions that give him the most trouble, his mother says, are those on
government and history that require knowledge of dates and a grasp of abstract
ideas.

Although Wu has permanent resident status and can't be deported, he wants more.

''I can work,'' says Wu, who speaks fluent English and Chinese. ''I'd be very
happy'' to be a citizen.

He believes his mental retardation - he has an IQ of 60 - shouldn't be a
barrier.

His boss agrees.

''He wants to pay taxes and he wants to vote. He's an outstanding person and
he'd be an outstanding citizen,'' says Richard Farmer of the Association for
Retarded Citizens in San Diego, where Wu works as a piecemeal assembler.

The bill that would exempt Wu from taking the test passed the House in November.
It needs the approval of the Senate Judiciary Committee before a full Senate
vote.

It's a long shot. Rep. Bill Lowery, R-San Diego, who introduced the measure,
says only a handful of private bills, those that apply to only one person, are
taken up for consideration.

Lowery's staff is also researching legislation to create a test waiver for the
mentally disabled. Current law allows parents who become naturalized citizens to
have the test waived for children under 18.

Wu ''has serious obstacles to overcome but ... does his best to succeed,''
Lowery says.

''He represents the best of what this nation is about.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Brian Phelps, AP

CUTLINE: U.S. ASPIRATIONS: Michael Wu, who has Down syndrome, hopes Congress
will pass special legislation allowing him to skip the citizenship test. He's
taken the exam six times.

TYPE: Newsmakers

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              76 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 18, 1992, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Return of Haitians cost $ 24M

BYLINE: Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 204 words


Reports Monday the government has spent $ 24 million to pick up, house and
return fleeing Haitians raised the ire of human interest groups.

The Sun-Sentinel of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., reported that since October the Coast
Guard has spent about $ 4.8 million, and a joint military task force has spent
at least $ 19 million, on illegal Haitian immigrants.

''This is an absolute waste of taxpayers' money,'' said Cheryl Little, a Miami
lawyer with the Haitian Refugee Center.

Says Daniel Stein, of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
wants to limit immigrant numbers: ''We'd be better off standing around
Port-au-Prince and paying them $ 1,500 not to get into the boat.''

The U.S. Coast Guard has rescued 15,716 Haitians since a Sept. 30 coup ousted
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. Hundreds are held in a tent city at Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba.

The AFL-CIO Monday urged Congress to grant Haitians temporary political asylum -
which would let them stay and work in the USA - saying Haiti's ruling government
has jailed and killed oppositionists.

Also, choreographer Katherine Dunham, 82, resisted a call by Aristide to end her
fast in East St. Louis, Ill., protesting the refugees' repatriation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              77 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 28, 1992, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Irishwoman fighting to stay in USA

BYLINE: Jana Mazanec

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 461 words

DATELINE: DENVER


Maureen Farrell did everything by the book when she came here from Ireland 10
years ago. She filed the right papers, got a job, built a life and waited for
permanent resident status.

But even though her application was approved, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service says she has to go.

Now the soft-spoken widow is desperate - and so, it would appear, are thousands
of Coloradoans trying to help her.

After Farrell's fight was publicized this week, her phone became a switchboard
of sympathetic calls. The INS had to disconnect its own line after a barrage of
35 irate calls in one hour, and local news media heard volumes from angry
viewers and readers.

''I'm stunned. I don't know what to tell them to do,'' says Farrell, 35, whose
plight has prompted at least seven marriage proposals - including one from a
64-year-old man in a nursing home - and an offer of adoption by the 84- year-old
widow next door.

''She's probably more of a citizen than people who are legally citizens,'' says
Patty Van Huffell, who read about Farrell in the newspaper and began calling
members of Congress.

Farrell immigrated after a terrorist's bomb rocked her Portadown, Northern
Ireland, apartment building. After a brief return to Ireland, she came back to
Denver and applied for residency on grounds of political asylum.

She married Gerard Murray and they had Jamie, now 4. Three years ago, her
diabetic husband died of an insulin reaction; she's been working as a legal
secretary.

Although she's been approved for permanent residency, there's a limit on how
many people can be granted residency each year. Farrell faces a six-year wait,
and INS regulations require that she do her waiting back in Ireland.

Regional INS Director Joe Greene says he's simply following rules.

She fights back tears when recounting offers of refuge in quiet basements. She
talks about the man who stood at her doorstep in the sunshine and offered his
hand in marriage.

''He said he didn't know how else to help me,'' says Farrell. ''But he was doing
it for me and my daughter.''

Jamie, a U.S. citizen by birth, is the main reason Farrell wants to stay. She
fears the strife in Portadown and believes it could be more dangerous if people
there knew of her allegiance to the United States.

But she's put her brick ranch house up for sale and says her only hope now is
that the government will respond to Colorado's outrage. Democratic Rep. Patricia
Schroeder's office has promised help.

Security guard Mike Sklar hopes a petition drive will warm government hearts. He
plans to deliver at least 1,000 signatures to the INS; he's got more than 600.

''We want her to stay,'' says Sklar. ''She's a good woman who wants to raise her
child in a free environment without bloodshed.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Brian Brianerd, The Denver Post

CUTLINE: FIGHTS DEPORTATION: Maureen Farrell with daughter Jamie, who is a U.S.
citizen, faces a six-year wait for residency status.

TYPE: Newsmakers

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              78 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  March 6, 1992, Friday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

HEATHROW PASSENGERS

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 394 words


The British government confirmed Thursday that it is considering allowing first-
and business-class passengers to go through special immigration lines at
Heathrow airport to speed their trips. Under the plan, airlines would provide
the funds for extra immigration control officials, who would be employed by the
government, the Home Office said. Several airlines, including British Airways,
proposed the idea a few months ago.

 IBM DEBT: A leading bond-rating agency downgraded about $ 18 billion in IBM
long-term debt, citing concern about IBM's compet itiveness and profitability.
Moody's lowered IBM's debt two notches from the top, Aaa, to Aa2. Although the
rating is still among the highest, it is considered a psychological blow and
could raise IBM's borrowing costs. IBM says it is disappointed with the
downgrade but believes the impact on its financing will be minimal. In April,
Duff & Phelps lowered IBM's debt from its highest rating, Aaa, to Aa+ and is
again reviewing IBM's debt. Standard & Poor's is also reviewing IBM's debt.

INVESTMENT RACKET: Australian police said they have uncovered an international
investment racket covering at least four countries and involving more than 100
million dollars ($ 75 million U.S.).  Police detained one man in Victoria and
questioned three in South Australia. Interpol and the FBI were helping with
investigations relating to the fraud in Europe, Thailand and the USA, ae police
spokesman said. Investors from a number of countries had been encouraged to put
money into fraudulent investment schemes such as the sale of gold bullion.

SAUDI LOAN: State-owned oil firm Saudi Aramco will borrow a total of $ 2.9
billion from foreign and domestic banks in two separate loans, Gulf-based
bankers said. Contracts will be signed in Frankfurt next Wednesday. A $ 1.5
billion general-purpose loan, arranged by U.S. firm Morgan Guaranty, was
increased to $ 2 billion after Saudi banks were invited to participate. Twenty
four banks from the USA, Europe and the Gulf will contribute to the four-year
revolving credit facility to help finance Aramco's ambitious expansion plans.

BUSINESS HOLIDAYS: Banking and government offices will be affected by holidays
Friday in Ghana; Sunday in Cape Verde, China, Guinea-Bissau, Mauritania,
Mongolia, Nepal, Syria and Yemen.
Compiled by Darren Summers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Moneyline

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              79 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 17, 1992, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Irish gain more visas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 48 words


The State Department granted 50,000 immigrant visas from almost 19 million
applications in the 1991 lottery. Countries receiving most visas:
Ireland      20,000
Poland       12,060
Japan         6,413

Great Britain 3,054
Indonesia     2,947

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; color, Julie Stacey, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. State Department,
Stand alone graphic (Bar graph)

TYPE: Snapshot

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              80 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 7, 1992, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Hispanics in L.A.: We suffered, too

BYLINE: Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 681 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


In the days following the bloodiest rioting since the Civil War, the nation has
watched Korean storeowners screaming outrage, black leaders clamoring for
answers, victimized whites demanding justice.

But what about Hispanics?

Los Angeles' large Hispanic population has suffered like every other group - at
least 12 dead, thousands injured, scores of businesses and homes lost - and in
some ways they've suffered more. The U.S. Border Patrol seized 1,400 immigrants
during the rioting - many now face possible deportation.

''They're not hurting as bad as blacks and Koreans,'' but there are Hispanics
who are hurting, says the Rev. Daniel Moncivaiz. ''But how can anyone know this
when there's a lack of real Hispanic leadership and unity?''

Despite their growing numbers, Hispanics are a relatively quiet minority, and
politically underrepresented.

Many are new immigrants who bring old-world values: speaking out is
disrespectful. And those here illegally fear a loud voice would draw immigration
authorities.

''Not only African-American people were affected ... but (they) always draw more
attention,'' says Carlos Vaquerano of the Central American Refugee Center.

Moncivaiz and Vaquerano are among a handful of Hispanic ministers and social
service workers organizing efforts to find housing, clothing and jobs for
Hispanics.

Los Angeles City Councilman Mike Hernandez Wednesday called for a halt on
Immigration and Naturalization Service raids.

''The civil rights of these people is being violated under the guise of federal
agents saying they're looking for looters,'' says state Sen. Art Torres, a
Democrat.

''The entire city tries to pretend that the immigrants aren't here,'' says
Hernandez. ''We need a voice.''

Hispanics make up about 40% of the hard-hit south central area; 60% of
businesses are Hispanic-owned.

Resentment and helplessness are spiraling through the community. Many Hispanic
men, left unemployed because their workplaces have been burned or looted, sit
idly on their front porches.

Machinist Luis Gutierrez, 40, is among them. ''They're trying to reopen by
Monday, but they said there will be pocito a pocito (very little) work for us. I
don't know if they'll call me back,'' he says.

Ice cream street vendor Rafael Sandoval has been supporting a wife and two
children on $ 6 in daily sales since the riots. Usually he makes $ 25 a day, but
people aren't buying extras like ice cream in this time of crisis.

''We are poor people, we don't have much, and now we have less,'' says Sandoval,
51.

Says Rafael Garcia, 29: ''The government needs to help the people because there
are many families in need, more so now than ever before.''

Says college student Peter Contreras, 19: ''We hardly have a voice in
government, not even in a local level. We have to start standing up for
ourselves and speaking out.''

Jesus Valenzuela and David Landia were doing the best they could.

Both sifted through charred rubble salvaging copper and bronze, which they were
selling for 70 cents a pound. They've been jobless since their factories burned.

''Many people think this stuff is worthless, but as a community we are learning
to be industrious to make a living,'' says Valenzuela, 40. ''We have to do
something to get money.''

Landia, 30, said their efforts represented Hispanics uniting and helping each
other - something he says the government should be doing.

''It's important that we have unity,'' says Landia, knee deep in burnt drywall
and blackened metal pipes.

''We are treated as strangers. We don't have a voice. No tongue,'' says
Valenzuela. ''I have an 8-year-old daughter who is full of imagination and
dreams. ... She doesn't understand when people look at her strangely - like
she'll never be worth anything. But I know she will.''

Hispanics and L.A.
A large concentration of Hispanics (1) call Los Angeles home:
Hispanics as a percentage of the city's population
1980        27.6%
1990        37.8%
1990 USA     8.4%

(1) -- 1980 census classified ''Spanish'' only, 1990 recognizes all Hispanics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; b/w, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: Census Bureau (Bar
graph); PHOTOS; b/w, Bob Rhiha Jr., Gamma/Liaison (2)

CUTLINE: CALLS FOR AID: Rafael Garcia, with daughter Nancy, says, 'The
government needs to help people because there are many families in need, more so
now than ever before.' CUTLINE: MAKING A LIVING: Jesus Valenzuela salvages
copper and bronze, which he can sell for 70 cents a pound.

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              81 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 7, 1992, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

FIRST RIOT, THEN DUTY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 307 words


Vernon Broussard, 32, appeared in Beverly Hills court on felony weapons charges
in his National Guard riot gear. Police had arrested him with a gun and firebomb
makings when riots began. He posted $ 10,000 bail, and was later called to guard
duty. ''It's an example of people getting caught up in a catastrophe like this
and doing things they would never do otherwise,'' his lawyer, Warren Ettinger,
said.

IMMIGRANTS ARRESTED: Police turned over to U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service nearly 500 illegal immigrants apprehended during the rioting. More than
300 Mexican citizens were bused to the border.

WAKE-UP CALL: In a talk to the American Newspaper Publishers Association in New
York, ex-San Antonio mayor Henry Cisneros said the Los Angeles riots should be a
''wake-up call for America'' for newspapers to help solve society's problems.
''Your city needs your voice, your encouragement, your scolding.''

CALL FOR PROTEST: More than 40 civic and civil rights leaders met in Washington
to call for marches and protests in the wake of the Rodney King verdict and
violent aftermath. ''We want to stop the abandonment of our cities,'' said Jesse
Jackson. First up: Washington, D.C., march May 16.

PET AID: Volunteers have distributed 40,000 pounds of donated Kal Kan pet food
at south central Los Angeles sites, as part of a relief program through the Los
Angeles Society for the Prevention of Cruelty of Animals.

VICTIM MOURNED: Three thousand people attended the funeral of Edward Song Lee,
18, killed Thursday in a crossfire trying to protect his neighborhood. ''It's a
tragedy. This is a young man who died while he was out doing the right thing,''
said Young Yoo, assistant pastor of Young Nak Presbyterian Church. Before
leaving his house, Lee had argued with his family about the danger, Yoo said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Paul Sakuma, AP

CUTLINE: GRIEF: Jung Hui Lee comforts James Kong, in wheelchair. Kong was with
her son, Edward Lee, when he died.

THE NATION; L.A. AFTERMATH AT A GLANCE

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              82 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 11, 1992, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Immigrants favor suburbs, new Census report shows

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 214 words


Many immigrants are bypassing big cities to settle directly in suburbs, and
nowhere is the trend more striking than Los Angeles, 1990 Census numbers out
today show.

The Los Angeles suburbs now have more residents who don't speak English well -
1.4 million - than do Los Angeles, Long Beach and the 10 other cities in the
metro area's urban core.

The suburbs have almost as many recent immigrants as the city, and more
foreign-born and residents who talk at home in a language other than English.

Experts see the same patterns in other metro areas in the West and Southwest.

''Immigrants in the past used to come to concentrated areas, and only after
assimilating would they move to outer suburbs,'' says California State
University geographer James Allen. ''That doesn't seem to be as true any
longer.''

The trend reflects urban decline as seen in the exodus of jobs and the middle
class to suburbia.

But experts caution suburban immigrants aren't always better off. Some -
Chinese, Filipinos, Asian Indians - move directly to the suburbs because they
have money and education. Others simply double or triple up in apartments.

''Immigrants go where they have family and friends,'' says University of
Michigan demographer William Frey. ''We've just seen the beginning.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COMMUNITY CLOSE-UP; See Main story; Monterey Park; The Chinatown of suburban
L.A. // 'It's easier to fit in here'

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              83 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 12, 1992, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

2 sides of American dream // Koreans find success can stir problems

BYLINE: Rhonda Richards

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1397 words


In Washington, Sue and Jei Kim are enjoying the business success they dreamed
about when they left Korea 30 years ago.

In 1988, the two opened a downtown printing business. Last year, revenue for
Metro Press was $ 450,000.

''I believe the Lord has blessed us with good health and all the opportunities
the world has to offer,'' says Sue Kim, 48. ''We are grateful to America that it
has had such opportunity to afford us.''

About 3,000 miles away, in south central Los Angeles, Steve Lee's dream lies
shattered in the B&B Beauty Supply Discount Store, which suffered $ 200,000 in
damage after being ransacked by rioters.

''My feelings are in terms of frustration, sadness, anger, disappointment and
devastation,'' says Lee, 25, who manages the store for his parents. ''I never
had this type of feeling in my life.''

The stories of those families illustrate the range of success and failure Korean
immigrants have faced the past decade since they've begun opening small
businesses in the USA. Those entrepreneurs are repeating the classic immigrant
success story. They're starting small family-owned stores, the same enterprises
that launched the European, Jewish and Hispanic immigrants, and U.S. blacks
before them.

Employing yourself when you are new to the USA is often the only way to get a
job, says Rieva Lesonsky, editor of Entrepreneur. ''When you are different -
either you look different or talk different - you are going to have a very hard
time getting into corporate America.''

While earlier immigrants have gone on to bigger things like shopping malls,
office buildings and high-tech firms, Korean entrepreneurs are thinking small:
groceries and retail stores. Analysts say Korean business owners control
family-run industries in several U.S. cities. Now, they're snapping up wholesale
and distribution firms that supply their businesses.

Between 1982 and 1987, businesses owned by Asian-Americans nearly doubled to
69,304, the Census Bureau reports. Its figures, the latest available, show that
among Asian-Americans, Korean immigrants rank third in business creation, behind
the Chinese and Japanese.

About 7% of Koreans own businesses, according to census statistics. That's
compared with 1.5% of U.S. blacks and 2% of Hispanics. Total revenue for
Korean-owned businesses was $ 7.7 billion in 1987. That compares with $ 19.8
billion for black-owned firms, $ 24.7 billion for Hispanic-owned firms and $ 2
trillion for all small firms.

Destruction during the Los Angeles riots shows how successful the businesses had
become. Damage to Korean-owned businesses in south central Los Angeles and that
city's Koreatown has been estimated at $ 375 million - half the estimated $ 750
million in damage to 1,500 businesses.

Who are the Koreans opening those businesses? Many are South Koreans who
emigrated in the 1960s and '70s to escape low wages or get a U.S. education.
Typically they are college-educated, white-collar workers. Few of the early
immigrants brought much cash. But recent immigrants are earning enough from the
sale of their homes in Korea to comfortably start a business here.

Now, the average Korean businessperson comes to the USA with assets of $ 60,000
to $ 250,000, says Ivan Light, author of Immigrant Entrepreneurs.

Sue and Jei Kim's first business six years ago was a tiny Washington newsstand.
Then, Sue decided to do something bigger. They saved profits from the newsstand
as well as Sue's salary as a nurse and Jei's as a university librarian. Now, the
Kims have a home in suburban Maryland, a son in college and a daughter in law
school.

Many Koreans starting businesses find the inner city a good opportunity.
Concerns about crime and high insurance rates are balanced by low rents and
limited competition.

About one in four Korean entrepreneurs own businesses in those communities.
Experts say they gain a strong foothold because black shop owners in black
communities are a vanishing breed, the victim of a lack of capital.

Commercial strips, such as Harlem's 125th Street, are saturated with
Korean-owned businesses from clothing and liquor stores to corner groceries and
soul-food restaurants.

''If they offer you $ 100,000 (for your business), that means they see $
400,000,'' says Parren Mitchell, chairman of the Minority Business Enterprise
Legal Defense and Education Fund, who is black.

Like Jewish and Arab store owners before them, many Koreans now are experiencing
the brunt of residents' frustration and anger over their economic predicament
and loss of businesses. Some have been targets of boycotts and violence.

''Unless something is done about unemployment, there's going to be resentment,''
Mitchell says. ''Many groups, not only Koreans, will be the target of that.''
That's a pity, he says. ''Koreans are not telling the lending institutions,
'Don't make loans to black people.' ''

Many blacks and Koreans just don't seem to understand each other, experts say.
There are language barriers, racial stereotypes and cultural differences. Many
Koreans avoid eye contact with customers, which they say shows respect. But that
infuriates many blacks, used to being shunned at store counters by white clerks.

''In some Korean businesses, there are some people who won't smile, who won't
say 'please' and 'thank you,' '' says Connie Pope of Chicago's Cosmopolitan
Chamber of Commerce, which represents black businesses. ''They openly admit
their biggest worry is security. So there is a tendency to overreact if they
feel threatened. They react, and blacks react to their negative behavior, and
the thing gets out of hand,'' she says.

Pope says black-Korean conflicts have been blown out of proportion. Many Koreans
and blacks get along well, she notes. Still, the differences have led to other
tragedies.

Last year, a Korean shop owner in Los Angeles shot a black teen-ager after
struggling with the girl over a bottle of orange juice. The shopkeeper was
convicted of voluntary manslaughter and placed on probation. A Los Angeles
activist group, The Brotherhood Crusade, began boycotting the store. The recent
jury verdict acquitting white police officers of beating black motorist Rodney
King became a blowtorch igniting the resentment into riots and the destruction
of Korean businesses.

Steve Lee says he has struggled to improve communications with black neighbors
by working with community groups, the city and police. He, like many other
Korean business owners, says he had good relations with his customers. He's
stunned that his store was ransacked while many black businesses around him were
untouched.

Lee wonders whether his family will do business again in the inner city. The
real question may be whether he and those like him can go anyplace else.

''We have no choice but to stay (in the inner city),'' says Myung Kim, a Korean
liquor store owner in Washington. ''You have to keep your job.''

Sadly, it may be the Los Angeles disaster that propels many Korean entrepreneurs
into the political and business mainstream, Lee believes. ''Korean-Americans are
very noticeable and very vulnerable,'' he says. ''They have no voice. This is a
wake-up call.''

Koreans pool savings

Some Americans believe the money Korean immigrants use to start their businesses
comes from the Korean government - or even the Moonies, the Rev. Sun Myung
Moon's Unification Church.

But in truth, experts say, most Korean businesspeople rely on the kye or keh, a
small savings club of friends and family who pool money each month and
distribute funds to one club member.  The funds are tax- and interest- free.

Contributions to such informal credit unions can be as little as $ 50 to $ 100 a
month or as high as thousands of dollars a month. Some West Coast kyes have
received millions of dollars in contributions.

Trust and longstanding family connections are cornerstones of the kye. To
violate that trust by taking off with the money guarantees a loss of face in
close-knit Korean communities. Many other immigrant groups, such as the
Vietnamese, Ethiopians, Caribbean blacks, West Africans and Chinese, also pool
their money for business loans, though not always as successfully as Koreans.

Some experts believe pooling of funds based on kye concepts could help cash-
strapped black entrepreneurs, who cite lack of access to capital markets as the
No. 1 barrier to starting a small business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; color, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY; PHOTO; color, Nick Ut, AP

CUTLINE: PROSPERITY AND RUIN: Sue Kim, above, owner of Metro Press in
Washington, saw revenue of $ 450,000 in her print shop last year. Buddy Lee,
right, stands in front of the burned-out remains of his grocery store in Los
Angeles, a casualty of last week's riots. He says the thought of rebuilding his
shop in the Koreatown section, which was heavily damaged, is almost too
agonizing to consider though he has to do so.

TYPE: Cover Story

See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              84 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     May 13, 1992, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Canseco creates immigration stir at Toronto airport

BYLINE: Dave Albee

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 167 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


Jose Canseco was detained by Canadian Immigration officials for more than two
hours Tuesday, shortly after the Oakland A's arrived at Pearson International
Airport.

''It was a misunderstanding,'' said A's manager Tony La Russa.

Canseco was apparently refused entrance because of a misdemeanor in 1989 in
California for illegal gun possession. He pleaded ''no contest'' to the charge
and got a probationary sentence of community service.

He had not been stopped in Canadian Customs in four previous trips to Toronto
since the 1989 conviction.

Canada Customs now have access to immigration department computer records and
Canseco's name came up on a check. He was taken to a separate security area and
held, he said, for at least two hours.

''Most of the time they were checking stuff and speaking to me,'' said Canseco,
who didn't appear to be overly upset by the incident. ''I'm just glad to be
here.''

Canseco needed a special minister's permit to get into Canada because of that
conviction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              85 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  February 27, 1991, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Asian growth: 105% in 10 years

BYLINE: Andrea Stone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 343 words


Asians are the USA's fastest growing group, new Census figures show.

In 1990 results, out for 33 states so far, Asian growth was 105% in the past
decade - twice as high as the preliminary rate for Hispanics, almost nine times
as high as non-Hispanic blacks, more than 25 times as high as non- Hispanic
whites.

Although nearly half of Asians live in six urban areas - Honolulu, Los Angeles,
San Francisco, New York, Chicago and San Jose, Calif. - their growth everywhere
has been highly visible.

In Buras-Triumph, La., for example, the Asian population was up 8,633%, to 262.
That may not sound like a lot of people, but it means the town has gone from
less than 1% Asian to more than 7% Asian in 10 years. Even tiny Box Elder, S.D.,
saw its Asian population swell 166%, to 104 people, since 1980. That happened at
the same time the town's overall population dropped 15%.

''If you look at Montana, Mississippi, states which historically have had few
immigrants, you will now find an Asian population,'' says immigration expert
Thomas Muller. Most Asians live in metropolitan areas, about evenly divided
between cities and suburbs.

Experts credit looser immigration laws for the massive flow of immigrants, who
accounted for about 75% of Asian growth in the 1980s. Among the newcomers: 25%
are Vietnamese, 17% Filipinos, 15% Chinese, 9% Korean.

Asians now account for 42% of the USA's immigrants - as many as come from
Latin-American countries.

Growth among Asians will continue, says William O'Hare of the Population
Reference Bureau, because immigration laws favor keeping families together and
give priority to individuals with needed work skills.

TEXT OF GRAPHIC
How groups grew in decade
Here are the population growth rates from 1980 to 1990 for various racial or
ethnic groups in the 33 states released by the U.S. Census Bureau:
Asian             104.75%
Hispanic           52.84%
Native Americans   38.72%
Black              11.78%
White               3.97%

Source: Census Bureau

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; b/w, USA TODAY, Source: Census Bureau; PHOTO; b/w, Bob Strong

CUTLINE: IN BUSINESS: Korean immigrant Jay Kang owns two stores in Fairfax
County. 'I found a new world,' he says.

TYPE: Statesline

Accompanying story; A slice of Asian life alongside U.S.  capital

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              86 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 22, 1991, Friday, FINAL EDITION

More gain citizenship

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 49 words


Nearly 50% more people became naturalized citizens in the 1980s than during the
previous decade:

 Naturalized citizens
1950s     1,156,790
1960s     1,129,306
1970s     1,417,233
1980s     2,102,103

Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; color, Julie Stacey, USA TODAY, Source; Immigration and
Naturalization Service, Stand alone graphic

TYPE: Snapshot

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              87 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 3, 1991, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Haitians accuse U.S. of 'double standard'

BYLINE: Jeanne DeQuine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 240 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Many Haitians here envy what they call an open arms policy to Cuban rafters.

''There is a double standard being applied to Haitians when they come,'' said
Yves Vielot, executive director of the Haitian Task Force.

Among the practices they cite:

- Arriving Cubans can remain in the USA, but most Haitians are sent back.

- The U.S. policy of interviewing aboard Coast Guard cutters Haitians - not
Cubans - apprehended on the seas. Unless they fit criteria for political asylum,
the Haitians are sent home.

Advocates also claim Haitians are denied political asylum because they are
black. INS denies it, saying some Cubans also are black.

''If you look at the big picture, Haitians get the short end of the stick every
time,'' said Cheryl Little of the Haitian Refugee Center.

A 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act allows special treatment for Cubans. ''Our laws
treat people differently because of an aberration: We have no avenue to return
Cubans,'' said U.S. immigration spokesman Duke Austin.

Since 1981: About 23,208 Haitians have been sent home since the Coast Guard
program began; about 180 Haitians have received political asylum in that time;
8,983 have been sent back who weren't intercepted by the Coast Guard.

Advocates predict fewer Haitians will arrive since Haiti has had free elections.
But they're still disturbed by the immigration system.

''Equal treatment is a concept beyond certain INS officials,'' said Little.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

FREEDOM; EXILES SEEK HOME IN FLORIDA; See main story; 'Balseros' risk everything
to escape Cuba

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              88 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 5, 1991, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Inspection process to slow travelers entering the USA

BYLINE: James Harney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 513 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


When Jean Pierre Tegnet stepped outside the International Arrivals Building at
Kennedy Airport to meet his limousine, he allowed himself a small smile; after
all, the worst of his trip was over.

Tegnet, a businessman who makes numerous trans-Atlantic trips for a New
York-based food company, had just spent seven hours on a flight from Paris - and
a half-hour in line waiting to be processed through Immigration and Customs.
''It could have been an hour or more,'' he said. ''What can you do?''

This summer, hundreds of thousands of international air travelers will find
their trips complicated by this equation: a post-Desert Storm boost in passenger
traffic, plus continued shortages in available Immigration and Naturalization
Service inspectors equals long, frustrating delays at major airports.

Expected trouble spots: the ''gateway'' airports that handle the largest numbers
of international flights - Kennedy, Miami and Los Angeles.

''Our trade and tourism are being strangled by the federal inspections process''
at the busiest airports, says George Howard of Airport Operators Council
International. Says Steve Yee, Los Angeles Airport manager: ''We've had some
occasions where passengers had to wait three to four hours.''

Delays would diminish, airport operators say, if the immigration service would:

- Hire additional inspectors.

- Reinstate ''citizen bypass,'' a procedure that allows U.S. citizens returning
to the country to bypass Immigration and go straight to Customs.

Customs agents examine luggage for contraband or imported items that require
payment of duties. Immigration agents make sure travelers are entering the
United States legally.

INS spokesman Duke Austin says more inspectors are on the way, thanks to recent
congressional action levying a $ 5-per-passenger airport ''user fee'' on
travelers entering the United States from Canada, the Caribbean and Mexico; they
previously had been exempt from the charge.

Some of the expected $ 75 million in revenue will go to hire nearly 400 more
inspectors, Austin says. But the process is slow: training and background checks
take about four months.

The citizen-bypass issue is stickier. INS insists on enforcing federal laws that
everyone, citizens included, must be checked upon entering the country. It
canceled citizen bypass nationwide in 1989 because the Customs Service was doing
only random spot checks of passengers.

But the INS actually recommended citizen bypass be reinstated, until the gulf
war began, says Ed O'Connor of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey,
which runs Kennedy.

The Federal Aviation Administration has reduced security at U.S. airports but
''the INS isn't pushing the National Security Council on the citizen- bypass
issue,'' O'Connor said.

Without citizen bypass, says Yee and other airport operators, another
congressional mandate - that federal inspection services clear each
international flight from an airport within 45 minutes - is ''unrealistic.''

''Frankly, if we can keep (delays) to an hour, I think we'd be doing well,'' Yee
said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; b/w, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY research (Bar graph)

AIR TRAVEL; AIRPORT CHECK-IN

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              89 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 24, 1991, Monday, FIRST EDITION

TRAIN DELAYS

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 185 words


Amtrak and freight service along the Eastern seaboard - the USA's busiest rail
corridor - was delayed Sunday because six rail cars, including two potassium
hydroxide tankers, derailed in Alexandria, Va. One leaked some of the highly
corrosive liquid, but no evacuations were needed. Three southbound trains were
held at Washington's Union Station, and one Boston-bound passenger train was
halted in Alexandria, Amtrak officials said. Service resumed late Sunday.

IMMIGRATION FINES: People who traffic in phony documents used by illegal
immigrants who are seeking work soon will face civil fines of up to $ 5,000. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service recently proposed regulations to
implement the fines, which were authorized last year by Congress. Officials said
criminal sanctions that already exist are rarely used because prosecutors give
higher priority to violent crimes. (Salvadoran refugees, 1A)

ALSO SUNDAY ...

- AIRSHOW CRASH: Federal officials were reviewing the crash of a T-34 military
trainer at an airshow Saturday in Redding, Calif. The pilot died: six spectators
were hurt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              90 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 24, 1991, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Taking a chance on amnesty // Salvadoreans gamble they won't be deported // Many
think INS offer is too risky

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1022 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Natividad Lopez does not trust government. He was jailed four times in El
Salvador and tortured by the military, he says. Here, he has spent two years
dodging immigration agents.

So in January, when the Immigration and Naturalization Service invited more than
800,000 Salvadorans who are in the USA illegally to sign up for temporary
amnesty, Lopez was suspicious.

''We know the history of the INS,'' says Lopez, 31, a father of five who is
struggling as a laborer. ''We don't feel so good. We're really worried what's
going to happen.''

Salvadorans who fled civil war and economic strife in their own country face a
difficult choice this week, and they must decide by next Sunday's deadline for
reporting to the INS.

Either they grab this chance to live here legally and run the risk of being
deported when their protected status expires June 10, 1992 - even if the war
still is raging - or they go on living illegally, giving up any opportunity for
permanent asylum.

After much debate, refugee advocates decided the gamble is worth taking. They're
urging Salvadorans to accept the offer and at least buy some time. They also are
pushing to extend the application deadline and the program so it would protect
Salvadorans until the war is over.

Under the program, Salvadorans will get a work permit, pay taxes and be eligible
for unemployment benefits, but they can't draw welfare. Once the program
expires, they'll be thrown into the long process of applying for political
asylum.

Through a related court settlement, the program gives a second chance to
Salvadorans refused asylum since 1980. Their applications will be reviewed under
new, fairer guidelines, advocates say.

About 82,000 have applied. INS offices are staying open until midnight in many
cities. Last-minute rushes to apply are reported at refugee centers in Los
Angeles, home to half of the 1 million legal and illegal Salvadorans;
Washington, D.C.; San Francisco; Chicago; and Houston.

''It's like an avalanche. Every day it's more and more people. We have lines
around the block,'' says Madeline Janis, executive director of the Central
American Refugee Center here. ''We know we're not going to be able to deal with
it. We're turning away 100 people a day.''

The doors of Centro Catolico in Washington, D.C., don't open until 9 a.m., but
Salvadorans start lining up at 2 a.m. to make sure they get in for their final
temporary-status interview with the INS.

INS Commissioner Gene McNary says he expects only 100,000 to 150,000 to apply.
''The fact that it's a temporary protected status will persuade some people not
to register because ... they give their name and address,'' McNary says. ''But
if I were here illegally from El Salvador, I would sign up.''

No one rushed to apply when the program started in January. Few trusted it, and
the application fee was $ 405 per person. The INS reduced the fee to $ 255 in
May after a San Francisco-based immigrant-rights group filed a class- action
suit. But distrust is still a deterrent.

Salvadorans are wary of the INS because it's trapped in a prickly Catch-22 -
reviewing requests for asylum from those fleeing a regime supported by the U.S.
To date, 96% of Salvadorans' requests for asylum have been denied.

''They're asking us to trust an agency that has done so much against us,'' says
Guillermo Rodezno, executive director of El Rescate, a public-interest law firm
here. ''The reason why Salvadorans weren't coming forward, aren't coming forward
and won't be coming forward is that they have the experience of the INS as an
agency that goes out of its way to deport Salvadorans.''

As for the new protection law, he says it's ''not perfect, but it's the best we
have right now.''

That's why Jorge Sanchez, 26, looks nervous sitting in a crowded room at the
Central American Refugee Center in the heart of Los Angeles' Salvadoran
neighborhood. He fidgets with the stack of official documents he needs before
photos and fingerprints are taken. His wife, Yanira, tries to amuse the
children, Blanca, 5, and Jorge Jr., 4.

''Yes, we are afraid of deportation, but having a work permit makes it worth
it,'' says Sanchez, who works illegally as a dishwasher. ''It took us this long
to decide doing it. I kept thinking about my kids.''

Sanchez escaped El Salvador in 1986 but had to go back when the INS toughened
sanctions against employers who hired undocumented workers. He made the
3,000-mile journey to the USA again in 1988.

''The situation is terrible in my country,'' he says. ''There is no safety.
Because of war, there's no work. There is fighting all around.''

An uncle and a cousin were shot dead while walking down the street, he says.
''It happens all the time.''

The environment in the USA is safer, but most Salvadorans here still face
tremendous problems. Without working papers or English skills, they work in
restaurant kitchens, in gardens and on construction sites for well below minimum
wage. And if an employer decides not to pay them, there's nothing they can do.

In Los Angeles, groups of up to 20 Salvadorans squeeze into efficiency
apartments in rundown buildings in the once-affluent area surrounding MacArthur
Park. They pay up to $ 500 a month for rent.

''The sanitary conditions are awful,'' Rodezno says. ''In many cases, they have
no running water.''

And for undocumented residents, the only health care available is emergency
care.

In early May, the frustration of many Hispanic refugees exploded into rioting in
the Mount Pleasant neighborhood of Washington, D.C.

The riots started after police shot a Hispanic man as he was being arrested.
Angry residents looted stores, leading Mayor Sharon Pratt Dixon to declare a
state of emergency and slap on a 7 p.m.-5 a.m. curfew.

''Overloading a community, having large numbers of people in limited housing and
space will lead to explosive situations,'' says McNary.

Still, those hardships are far less severe than the horrors many Salvadorans
left behind.

''In my country,'' says Lopez, ''you can go to sleep at night, and then someone
knocks on your door and you disappear.''
Contributing: Dennis Cauchon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS; color, Bob Riha Jr., Gamma Liaison (2)

CUTLINE: ACCEPTING AMNESTY: Jorge Sanchez with wife Yanira and children Jorge
Jr., 4, and Blanca, 5. 'We are afraid of deportation,' Sanchez says, 'but having
a work permit makes it worth it.' CUTLINE: JANIS: Los Angeles refugee center
'turning away 100 people a day.'

TYPE: Cover Story

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              91 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 2, 1991, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Ban is a healthy policy

BYLINE: Marge Roukema, Guest columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 355 words


As a moderate Republican who has repeatedly supported funding for AIDS research
and treatment, I am against lifting the ban on HIV-positive immigrants.
Immigration policy currently offers waivers to AIDS carriers who wish to enter
the USA for a limited period. There is no compelling reason to radically revise
existing policy.

Immigration policy must be propounded within public-health guidelines to protect
the health of U.S. citizens. AIDS is the only epidemic in modern medical history
to be addressed as a political issue rather than as a health policy matter.

Efforts should be concentrated on education, research and treatment of U.S.
victims. We should not knowingly introduce a new source of infection.

The American Medical Association has concluded that testing all immigrants and
barring those who test positive from immigrating permanently is reasonable and
necessary. The AMA, American Dental Association and Centers for Disease Control
are recommending that infected health-care professionals disclose their status
or refrain from performing invasive procedures. The CDC confirms the growth of
the epidemic is accelerating. How, in the name of all that is rational, can we
adopt a policy to admit AIDS carriers and knowingly give entry to a new source
of contagion?

The growing dollar costs of AIDS are financially overwhelming our hospitals. The
costs will not be limited to medical care of infected individuals but will
entail escalating welfare costs and health costs as immigrants become indigent
with the progressive nature of the disease. Are we prepared to shoulder the
costs of this policy change?

The facts are clear: AIDS remains terminal and contagious. There is scientific
data that the epidemic is accelerating. AMA, ADA and CDC are willing to
recommend major restrictions to control the spread of this deadly disease. To
significantly proscribe the practices of health-care professionals while
simultaneously allowing new sources of the virus, through immigration policy,
cannot be justified on medical or scientific grounds. This is not the time to
radically revise immigration policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate is on AIDS & IMMIGRATION and the need for an
open-door policy by U.S. officials.; OPPOSING VIEW; Don't introduce a new source
of infection by admitting AIDS carriers.; Rep.  Marge Roukema, R- N.J.

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              92 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 5, 1991, Monday, FINAL EDITION

A 'mixed salad' in New York

BYLINE: Bruce Frankel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 421 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


A few years ago, Brooklyn's Sunset Park neighborhood was dying.

But there was no requiem.

Today, Asian music spills onto the sidewalks along 8th Avenue, once home to
Finns, Swedes, Norwegians, Italians and Irish. Signs in brilliant red Chinese
characters offer food and real estate, while a Pakistani mosque offers prayers.
Nearby 5th Avenue also is bustlingly alive, but there the shopkeepers speak
Spanish.

''I'd call it a mixed salad, rather than a melting pot,'' says local community
board manager Nick Sciarra.

Neighborhoods like this were the reason that New York City didn't lose
population in the past decade, the 1990 Census found.

While many longtime residents left, immigrants came in droves, and the city
whose signature and savior has long been immigration grew 3.6%.

Demographers say continued white flight and an influx of 90,000 immigrants a
year helped make minorities, at 56.8%, the city's majority.

Sunset Park is typical of New York's changing ethnic neighborhoods. In 1970, the
industrial waterfront area was 67% white. In 1980, as factories closed and
dockworkers moved, whites were slightly outnumbered by minorities. Today, 34% of
Sunset Park's 102,553 residents are non-Hispanic whites. Hispanics, mostly
Puerto Ricans, make up 51%.

Asians, however, are the fastest growing group, tripling since 1980. Chinese,
Laotians, Cambodians, Vietnamese and others make up 10.4% of Sunset Park,
transforming 8th Avenue into the city's ''third Chinatown'' after an older
enclave in Manhattan and one in Queens.

Says Sue Ann Jung, manager of an auto parts store: ''The area was deserted.
Nobody wanted the buildings.''

But others, like Brian Olsen, 35, who runs the family's Norwegian bakery, are
less positive about the change: ''The whole thing with the Chinese has happened
a little too fast.''

Resentments run high among older Hispanic residents, too. Angered by increased
crime, they blame the new stream of Mexicans, Dominicans and Ecuadoreans.

''Inevitably, there are tensions and conflicts between new immigrants and older
minorities,'' says Richard Alba, a sociologist at the State University of New
York at Albany.

But Louis Winnick, author of New People in Old Neighborhoods, says Sunset Park
is ''a neighborhood sustained by those who journeyed to America for a second
chance, who in seeking to advance themselves also advance neighborhood, city and
nation.''

Says community activist Violetta Maya: ''The change is very good. It's good to
have a mix, to see different cultures.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS; b/w, Stephen Lefkovits, USA TODAY (2)

CUTLINE: NORWEGIAN BAKERY: The Olsen family - Linda, Brian Sr. and Brian Jr. -
runs Olsen's Bakery in Brooklyn's Sunset Park. They are concerned about changes
in the neighborhood. CUTLINE: AUTO STORE: Sue Ann Jung is manager of an auto
parts shop on 8th Avenue, which has become New York's 'third Chinatown.'

1990 CENSUS; HOW THE NATION CHANGED IN THE '80s; THE IMMIGRANTS

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              93 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 27, 1991, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Murky future for 'Marielitos' // No progress in prison siege

BYLINE: Mark Mayfield; Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 531 words


The siege of a Talladega, Ala., federal prison by Cuban inmates enters a seventh
day today - the latest episode in the stormy saga of the Marielitos, who arrived
by boat from Cuba in 1980.

There was no evidence of progress toward a peaceful settlement Monday. Some 121
inmates at the Talladega Federal Correctional Institution, who are fighting
deportation to Cuba, are holding 10 hostages.

The detainees fear an uncertain future in Cuba. The siege began a day before 32
of them were to be deported.

''You never hear from them after they're deported to Cuba,'' says Sally Sandidge
of Atlanta Legal Aid, which has represented detainees at deportation hearings.
''They drop off the face of the earth.''

''The government for 11 years has treated them like they're not here, abusing
their civil rights,'' said Sandidge. ''You've got some pretty angry people in
there.''

Says Duke Austin of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service: ''They have
been given fair hearings, hearings that go far beyond those given to any other
alien group.''

Talladega prison officials say they have provided no food to the Cubans or their
hostages since the takeover began. So far, the siege has averted the violence of
1987, when Cubans rioted at federal prisons in Atlanta and Oakdale, La.

The riots led to a moratorium on deportations while the Justice Department
reviewed INS hearings. Deportations began again in 1988: 457 Cubans have been
deported since then. More than 4,000 have been released, most settling in Miami.

About 2,500 are still in prisons. Talladega is considered the last stop before
deportation. At least 30 of the Cubans held in Talladega participated in the
1987 riots, officials said.

The Cubans, imprisoned for U.S. crimes, are among 125,000 Cubans who arrived in
the Mariel boatlift. Between 70,000 and 80,000 have U.S. citizenship and most
live in Florida.

''The image of the Mariel group as being criminally inclined is totally false.
It's statistically false,'' says Miami lawyer Rafael Penalver.

Mariel immigrant Pedro Venereo, 46, was detained nearly two years after he
served six months for aggravated assault. Released this summer, he's working in
a paint factory near Miami.

''I think it's unfair for immigrants to be treated one way, and for Cubans who
are specifically from Mariel to be treated another,'' Venereo says. ''We want
liberty. That's the reason we came.''

Penalver, along with Miami Auxiliary Bishop Agustin Roman, a Cuban exile priest,
helped settle the 1987 riots.

Penalver and Roman say they are ready to be negotiators again. But prison
officials have not invited them.

''I understand their desperate situation,'' says Roman. ''They remain in custody
years and years after they've fulfilled their time. But violence is not the
way.''

In Atlanta, federal Judge Marvin Shoob, who presided over initial hearings for
detainees, says the Justice Department still isn't giving them adequate
hearings.

''The type of hearings have improved, but they still haven't received due
process in the manner in which an American citizen could expect. Many of these
people feel they haven't been given an opportunity to tell their story.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; b/w, USA TODAY (Map, Ala.); PHOTO; b/w, Dave Martin, AP

CUTLINE: CALLED IN: An FBI SWAT team at the Talladega Federal Correctional
Institution, where the hostage siege continues.

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              94 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 4, 1991, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

In Boston, a mix of hardship and hope

BYLINE: John Larrabee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 944 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


At the Kinvara Pub, where Irish immigrants gather to throw darts or watch
hurling matches on cable TV, construction worker Mike Cain dreams of the day
when he can step out of the shadows.

Some 40,000 visa slots - two in five of them for the Irish - will be available
in the U.S. immigration lottery this fall.

Cain, who has already been here three years, is sure he'll be one of the
winners.

''I'm not afraid of getting caught,'' says the County Waterford native. ''There
are thousands of illegals here in Boston, and if they wanted to catch them, they
could catch them. But a visa means you can apply for credit. You can buy a car
without having to pay the whole amount straight down. You can get a job with
medical benefits. You can come and go as you please, just like any other
American.''

He's not alone.

By some estimates, Boston is home to more than 25,000 undocumented immigrants
from the Republic of Ireland. Most came to escape unemployment back home, where
the jobless rate is nearing 20%.

But without visas, opportunities here are limited. Some use made-up Social
Security numbers, but many seek out employers who are willing to look the other
way.

They work as nannies, bartenders and construction workers and joke that they're
''here on holiday.''

''People come over here with the idea that there's money to be made, and there
is, if you're legal,'' says Ken Cummings, 32, who left County Wexford for Boston
six months ago. After managing a hotel in Ireland, Cummings now waits tables and
finds that life in the USA can be frustrating.

''When you're undocumented, you can't plan ahead,'' he says. ''You can't think
about getting an education or starting a business. You can't go back home, but
you don't have a home here. So you go to the pub every night and talk about the
same old things.''

Advocates of the new visa plan say it corrects an imbalance, without taking
visas away from others. Until the 1960s, Irish immigrants flocked to the USA.

But the flow slowed to a trickle after the Immigration Act of 1965, which
favored immigrants from Third World countries, who were denied entry in the
past. Since then, legal immigration from Ireland has averaged only 800 a year.

''It's a win-win situation for them and us,'' says Frank Costello, the mayor's
liaison to the Irish community. ''The young Irish are the most educated
generation to come here. They bring skills and contribute to the economy moving
forward.''

Boston has been a favored destination for Irish immigrants for 150 years, and
new arrivals say that long history makes them feel welcome. By most estimates,
the city has more Irish immigrants than any other except New York.

Here, a native of Galway or Cork can find hurling clubs, Irish papers in the
news stores, even Catholic priests who'll hear confessions in Gaelic, the
language spoken in some parts of rural Ireland.

With the construction boom of the 1980s over, some are moving on to find jobs.
But many choose to stay.

''Boston is like a home away from home,'' says mason Mike McGath, who arrived 12
years ago and now has legal status. ''You can walk down the street and you meet
people you went to school with.''

Irish workers without visas find they're seldom bothered by immigration
officials. But often, they say, they're exploited by those who know they're in
the United States illegally.

Alan Reid, 23, a landscaper, has a working visa, but he's heard the stories from
friends who don't.

''A lot of them are victimized by employers,'' he says. ''If you work for
someone for two weeks, and then he says he can't pay you until he sees a green
card, what are you going to do?''

More commonly, new arrivals struggle with homesickness and the difficult
adjustment to a new society, says Dave Mooney, an outreach worker at Boston's
Irish Immigration Center, a self-help organization run by immigrants.

Many haven't seen their families in years; they know that when illegal
immigrants leave this country, they often aren't allowed back in.

''We've seen new Irish who are having trouble with alcohol,'' says Mooney.
''Back in Ireland, young people live with their families. They have parents to
look after them.

''When they come over here, their life is centered around the pub,'' he said.
''It's the employment agency, where you cash your paycheck, the place to meet
your friends or dates.''

Those who arrive in the USA with several hundred dollars and hopes of finding a
job in a few hours quickly lose their illusions. Decent apartments are hard to
find, and wages don't stretch nearly as far.

Because their own country has socialized health care, many aren't expecting to
pay for health insurance.

''That's the side of the story you don't hear about in Ireland,'' says Patrick
Riordan, who is on the center's board of directors.

''You hear the success stories about the house, the car, the pool in the back
yard. Setbacks and failures are conveniently forgotten in the letters back
home.''

But, despite the obstacles, few give up their dreams.

Cork City native Kieran Murphy, 25, arrived this year with a temporary work
visa, and now plans to stay when it expires this month. He and several friends
have put together a band that plays Irish pop hits and have found steady work in
Boston and New York.

''This is still the land of opportunity, for anyone who really wants to work,''
he says. ''I'm afraid it will be harder for musicians to get one of the visas,
because bar owners can't be expected to pledge that you'll be working for the
next year. But I'm hoping they'll consider the fact that I'm boosting your
economy. We've put two Americans to work playing guitars and keyboards.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS; color, Julia Malakie, AP (2)

CUTLINE: POSITIVE THINKING: Construction worker Mike Cain playing darts at a
pub. He believes he'll be a winner in the visa lottery, after which he can 'come
and go as you please.' CUTLINE: 'BOOSTING ECONOMY': Irish musician Kieran Murphy
says his band keeps two American guitar players employed.

SPECIAL REPORT; IMMIGRATION REFORM; Thousands of would-be U.S. citizens are
angling to win in the nation's second immigration lottery. A total of 40,000
entrants will get visas. But the law reserves most slots for the Irish and other
Europeans. A look at the lottery:

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              95 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 17, 1991, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Moving into mainstream

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 228 words


Just how ''American'' is a person of Italian descent whose family has lived here
three generations?

The question seems ludicrous now, but 70 years ago, respected scientists claimed
Southern and Eastern European immigrants were biologically inferior and unable
to assimilate.

Today, though many Italian-, Irish- and Polish-Americans take pride in their
heritage, few consider themselves minorities. And their experience suggests that
identification of Hispanics and Asians as minorities may lessen over time.

Intermarriage and integrated neighborhoods - two key measures of assimilation -
are common among second- and third-generation Hispanics and Asians, says Thomas
Archdeacon, an immigration historian at the University of Wisconsin, Madison.

Blacks face a different set of obstacles. While relatively few are recent
immigrants, historic discrimination has left them they most racially isolated
group.

Historians who study immigration say prejudice against minority groups and
rivalries among them have grown, and then faded with successive waves of
immigration.

Brandeis University historian Larry Fuchs believes Asians and Hispanics will
assimilate more rapidly than earlier immigrants.

Now, immigrants ''can get on an airplane,'' Fuchs says. ''They can turn on the
TV and see Madonna and Michael Jackson. Popular culture is tremendously
powerful.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CENSUS '90; MINORITIES FUEL URBAN GROWTH

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              96 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 11, 1991, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Those from 34 nations are eligible

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 161 words


Forty thousand immigrants, mostly from Europe, will be granted permanent U.S.
residencies in the immigration lottery that begins at 12: 01 a.m. Monday. How it
works:

- Immigrants from 34 countries are expected to mail in 5 million applications
for the 40,000 slots.

- All applications will be posted at the Merrifield, Va., Post Office. The first
50,000 postmarked are picked. (Ten thousand will be disqualified.)

- A winner can be declared ineligible for a serious criminal record, serious
contagious disease, history of narcotics use or trafficking, espousing certain
ideologies like terrorism, and visa fraud.

- Forty percent - or 16,000 spots - will be reserved for Irish nationals, one of
the largest groups shut out by U.S. visa policy in the past 20 years.

- Applicants may apply as often as they wish.

- Winners will be notified by Nov. 30.

- Similar lotteries take place in 1992 and 1993.

Source: State Department;USA TODAY research

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

IMMIGRATION; See main story; Countdown this weekend for visa lottery // 40,000
slots for millions of hopefuls

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              97 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                October 11, 1991, Friday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

Panel told restricting foreign artists hurts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 143 words


Restricting the number of foreign artists allowed into the USA would jeopardize
the entire U.S. entertainment field - from the Ringling Bros. and Barnum and
Bailey Circus to the Louisville Orchestra - a congressional panel was told. The
House Subcommittee on International law, Immigration and Refugees is studying
legislation that would repeal the 25,000 cap placed on artists' visas by the
1990 Immigration Act. The cap has been under fire from performing artists not
only in the USA but also in Europe, Canada and Australia. In response to the
outcry, the Bush administration has agreed to delay the scheduled October
implementation of the provision until April 1992. Changing the law is ''about
heart,'' Tony Award-winning actor Robert Morse said. Others testifying: Wayne
Brown, Louisville Orchestra executive director; Ringling CEO Kenneth Feld.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Capital Line

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              98 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 11, 1991, Friday, FIRST EDITION

Countdown this weekend for visa lottery // 40,000 slots for millions of hopefuls

BYLINE: Bruce Frankel; John Larrabee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 859 words

DATELINE: MERRIFIELD, Va.


Tac Shibata should be given credit even if the 27-year- old Tokyo-born student
doesn't win one of the wackiest government-sponsored competitions ever.

He's been camping out for a solid week in a parking lot here, the first of
thousands of would-be immigrants descending on this Virginia suburb to dump
millions of applications into mailboxes and bins for a first-come, first-
granted visa lottery that begins at 12: 01 a.m. Monday. The earlier the
postmark, the better.

Proudly squaring his narrow leather-jacketed shoulders, he says, ''Green card is
our dream and our hope.''

A slim one, at best.

Government officials overseeing the lottery are predicting a deluge of more than
5 million applications for permanent residency slots reserved for 40,000 people
- 16,000 Irish and 24,000 others from 33 mostly European nations.

Postal police and Fairfax County police say they're ready for what could become
immigration's equivalent of Woodstock.

''It's going to be a party weekend,'' says New York nanny and illegal alien
Breda Kierman, 24, of Colm Cille, Ireland.

She and others are making the trek to Virginia despite warnings by postal
officials that the effort to mail from Merrifield at midnight on Sunday doesn't
give any advantage. It may, in fact, be futile.

The Merrifield post office stops processing mail originating there at 7 p.m. on
Saturday and won't resume postmarking until sometime on Monday.

But applications, mailed from elsewhere and shipped to Merrifield, will continue
to be canceled around the clock. Envelopes postmarked after 12: 01 will be
trayed chronologically.

In Boston, New York, Chicago and Los Angeles, thousands have been attending
informational seminars to get the skinny on how to beat the odds.

Notifications will be sent out to the first 50,000 names by the end of November.

''I thought immigration was a serious business,'' says Henner Cuckuck, 50, of
Berlin, Germany. ''Now, it's reduced to a carnival.''

Lawyers, travel agents, and copy centers have tried to cash in on the hoopla,
advertising that they could increase applicants' chances of winning.

''Who thought of this cockamamie thing?'' asks Commissioner Mark Green, of the
New York City consumer affairs department, which has already charged 10 lawyers
and businesses with falsely promising to increase chances of winning. ''This
system preys on people in a panic and encourages overreaching lawyers to
overcharge and over-promise desperate people.''

In Ireland, entrepreneurs have been charging as much as 100 pounds ($ 172) to
fly applications to the United States. Postal workers went on strike there on
Monday, the day many planned to mail applications. But workers delayed the
strike until 11 a.m. to permit lottery mailings.

''They were lined up by the hundreds at the Dublin General Post Office. There
were queues and queues and queues,'' says Mary Loftus of Immigrant's Advice, an
agency of the Diocese of Dublin. .''

Critics consider the lottery unseemly and say Congress abdicated its
responsibility to make immigration policy.

''It cheapens the system,'' says Alan Nelson, a Sacramento-based immigration
consultant and former commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Nonetheless, across the country droves of people have been lining up at offices
to deposit hundreds and thousands of applications in sacks others will carry to
Merrifield.

At Flannery's, a Manhattan bar that has Irish singers, Galway native Joel Kenny,
31, was getting psyched. He's spent $ 1,000 in postage, stationery, and computer
assistance in preparing 1,000 applications he hopes will end five years he has
spent as an illegal alien.

''It's not really so much money if I won't have to worry about people coming
around looking for me, and I'll be able to go home to visit my family,'' he
says. ''It's worth twice that.''

Critics have slammed the lottery as a ''white people's lottery'' intended to
rescue more than 100,000 undocumented immigrants from the Republic of Ireland
over the three years it will be conducted.

While the strong Irish political lobby didn't exploit racial tensions to win the
lottery, ''they are the beneficiaries of the fact that Congress is a lot more
comfortable with some kinds of immigrants than others,'' says Cecilia Munoz of
the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic rights group.

The chance of winning U.S. citizenship, hassle-free, remains a prize more
important to many foreigners than many jaded and disheartened Americans might
believe.

Niall O'Dowd, publisher of the Irish Voice, says his weekly newspaper has
received more than 100,000 applications to deliver to Merrifield. ''We have
people, who come from a country with 20% unemployment, who consider this their
last, best hope.''

Economic opportunity and lifestyle appear to be the major drawing cards. The
idea of freedom - once the favorite reason - isn't such a novel buzz word
anymore.

Take Roy Kelly, 20, a business student at Manhattanville College, Purchase,
N.Y., whose girlfriend Meghan Sullivan, helped him fill out applications. ''I've
lived in Ireland and South Africa, and this is the best country in the world.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EAR PHOTO; color, Christopher Gierlich; PHOTOS; b/w, Christopher
Gierlich (3)

CUTLINE: HELP FROM A FRIEND: Roy Kelly's girlfriend Meghan Sullivan gives him a
hand with his application. Kelly says, 'I've lived in Ireland and South Africa,
and this is the best country in the world.' CUTLINE: LOTTERY THOUGHTS: Henner
Cuckuck says, 'I thought immigration was a serious business. Now, it's reduced
to a carnival.' CUTLINE: PREPARING HIS PAPERWORK: Bernie Feeney hopes to be one
of the lucky 40,000 who'll win a permanent residency slot.

IMMIGRATION; See sidebar; Those from 34 nations are eligible

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              99 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 11, 1991, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Countdown this weekend for visa lottery // 40,000 slots for millions of hopefuls

BYLINE: Bruce Krankel; John Larrabee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 858 words

DATELINE: MERRIFIELD, Va.


Tac Shibata is part of the first wave of would-be immigrants descending on this
Virginia town.

The 27-year-old Tokyo-born student has been camping out in a parking lot here
for a solid week, in hopes of being one of 40,000 people picked in a
government-sponsored visa lottery that starts here Monday at 12: 01 a.m.

Many, like Shibata, are banking on dumping hundreds of applications into
mailboxes for a first-come, first-granted lottery in which the earlier the
postmark, the better.

''Green card is our dream and our hope,'' Shibata said.

A slim one, at best.

At least 5 million applications are expected for the 40,000 permanent residency
slots - 16,000 of which will go to Irish applicants and 24,000 to others from 33
mostly European nations.

Government officials and local police say they're bracing for what could be a
mob scene.

''It's going to be a party weekend,'' says New York nanny and illegal alien
Breda Kierman, 24, of Colm Cille, Ireland.

She and others are making the trek to Virginia despite warnings by postal
officials that mailing from Merrifield Sunday at midnight won't ensure theirs
will be one of the first received.

It may, in fact, be futile.

The Merrifield post office - a regional mail center chosen for the lottery
because of its proximity to Washington, D.C. - will stop processing mail
originating there at 7 p.m. on Saturday and won't resume until sometime on
Monday.

But applications, mailed from elsewhere and shipped to Merrifield, will continue
to be canceled around the clock. Envelopes postmarked after 12: 01 will be
trayed chronologically.

In Boston, New York, Chicago and Los Angeles, thousands have been attending
seminars on how to beat the odds.

Most commonly advised: Mail early, mail often, mail from different locations,
and - despite what postal officials say - mail from Merrifield.

Winners will be notified by the end of November. About 20% are expected to be
disqualified because of drug use, disease, and fear they'll become a ward of the
state.

Many remain skeptical:

''This is daft,'' says Michael Park, 24, a native of Scotland who lives in New
York.

''I thought immigration was a serious business,'' says Henner Cuckuck, 50, of
Berlin, Germany. ''Now, it's reduced to a carnival.''

''Who thought of this cockamamie thing?'' asks Commissioner Mark Green, of the
New York City consumer affairs department, which has already charged 10 lawyers
and businesses with falsely promising to increase chances of winning.

''This system preys on people in a panic and encourages overreaching lawyers to
overcharge and overpromise desperate people,'' says Green.

In Ireland, entrepreneurs have been charging as much as 100 pounds ($ 172) to
fly applications to the United States. Postal workers went on strike there
Monday, the day many planned to mail applications. ''They were lined up by the
hundreds at the Dublin General Post Office. There were queues and queues and
queues,'' says Mary Loftus of Immigrant's Advice, an agency of the Diocese of
Dublin.''

Critics charge the lottery is unseemly, and say Congress abdicated its
responsibility to make immigration policy.

''It cheapens the system,'' says Alan Nelson, a Sacramento-based immigration
consultant and former commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Nonetheless, across the country droves of people have been lining up at offices
to deposit hundreds and thousands of applications in sacks others will carry to
Merrifield.

At Flannery's, a Manhattan bar,, expectation was building: Galway native Joel
Kenny, 31, said he's spent $ 1,000 in postage, stationery, and computer
assistance in preparing 1,000 applications he hopes will end five years he has
spent as an illegal alien.

''It's not really so much money if I won't have to worry about people coming
around looking for me, and I'll be able to go home to visit my family,'' he
says. ''It's worth twice that.''

Others charge the lottery is a ''white people's lottery'' intended to rescue
more than 100,000 undocumented immigrants from the Republic of Ireland over the
three years it will be conducted.

While the strong Irish political lobby didn't exploit racial tensions to win the
lottery, ''they are the beneficiaries of the fact that Congress is a lot more
comfortable with some kinds of immigrants than others,'' says Cecilia Munoz of
the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic rights group.

But still, the chance of winning hassle-free U.S. citizenship remains a prize
more important to many foreigners than many jaded and disheartened Americans
might believe.

Niall O'Dowd, publisher of the Irish Voice, says his weekly newspaper has
received more than 100,000 applications to deliver to Merrifield. ''We have
people, who come from a country with 20% unemployment, who consider this their
last, best hope.''

Economic opportunity and lifestyle appear to be the major drawing cards. The
idea of freedom - once the favorite reason - isn't such a novelty.

Take Roy Kelly, 20, a business student at Manhattanville College, Purchase,
N.Y.: ''I've lived in Ireland and South Africa, and this is the best country in
the world.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EAR PHOTO; color, Christopher Gielrich; PHOTOS; b/w, Christopher
Gierlich (3)

CUTLINE: GREEN CARD DREAMS: Applicants get help with forms. CUTLINE: HELP FROM A
FRIEND: Roy Kelly's girlfriend Meghan Sullivan gives him a hand with his
application. Kelly says, 'I've lived in Ireland and South Africa, and this is
the best country in the world.' CUTLINE: LOTTERY THOUGHTS: Henner Cuckuck says,
'I thought immigration was a serious business. Now, it's reduced to a carnival.'
CUTLINE: PREPARING HIS PAPERWORK: Bernie Feeney hopes to be one of the lucky
40,000 who'll win a permanent residency slot.

IMMIGRATION; See sidebar; Those from 34 nations are eligible

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              100 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 14, 1991, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Immigration lottery raises lots of hope, confusion

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 669 words

DATELINE: MERRIFIELD, Va.


The hopes and dreams of huddled masses converged Sunday on a nondescript
Virginia post office - headquarters for an unusual immigration lottery.

Some of the masses showed up, too, in a tangle of bodies, languages and pieces
of mail that at times threatened to erupt in chaos.

''It just shows you how much people want to come to this country,'' said Fairfax
County police spokesman Bill Coulter, working overtime to manage the jam of
people and cars.

By the time it's all over, 40,000 foreigners will have won permanent U.S.
residencies by being first to post applications after 12: 01 a.m. today.

Everywhere one looked here, there were envelopes - in boxes, in grocery bags, in
shopping bags, spilling out of people's pockets, filling up trunks of cars.

Victoria Jackson, a Polish immigrant who lives in Connecticut, has her permanent
residency card.

But she delivered 3,000 applications on behalf of 1,000 Poles and Lithuanians
who got her name through word of mouth.

Many were confused about how the lottery worked - and unrealistic about their
chances of winning, she said.

''The worst thing is that some people think because I live in the U.S. I can do
anything,'' she said. ''I've gotten letters from people already preparing to
come to this country!''

By 4: 30 p.m. Sunday, postal officials had processed nearly 3 million pieces of
mail from across the country. Another 3 million were waiting to be processed,
and at least 3 million more were still expected.

''The winners are probably in this building right now,'' Postal Service
spokesman Henry Cleffi said, referring to mail not yet postmarked because of
sheer volume. ''It may be too late for those still outside.''

But outside, people continued to line up at canvas bins placed around the
grounds, dropping in their envelopes and moving on to the next bin. Applicants
could file as often as they wished.

Forty percent of green cards are earmarked for Irish immigrants - a fact viewed
with some chagrin by others and even some Irish. ''Of course it's not fair,''
said Paul O'Kelly, who was delivering 700 applications for three friends.

John Quinlan, spokesman for the Irish Immigration Reform Movement, said studies
showed Ireland was most discriminated against in past standards for issuing
visas.

''People from other countries should be grateful to the Irish for lobbying for
this,'' Quinlan said.

At one point Saturday night, postal officials were nearly overrun by hundreds of
over-eager applicants desperately tossing visa envelopes into canvas bins set up
in front of the post office.

Things had calmed down by Sunday evening, in part because the crowd had shrunk
to about 100 and because officials figured out what had gone wrong the day
before.

''We set up many collection points (on the grounds) to establish a flow and keep
people moving,'' said postal inspector Karen Earl, one of a score of postal
workers who worked overtime to handle the crush.

Most people said they submitted at least 100 applications, and many submitted
far more. Postal officials said one woman submitted 16,000.

Illegal immigrants who turn up lottery losers don't have to worry about being
found out, officials said. For one thing, they can put their foreign addresses
on applications.

For another, immigration officials say there are easier ways to find
undocumented immigrants than take the time to wade through 10 million pieces of
mail.

The visa rush
Immigrants from these 34 countries can apply for one of the 40,000 lottery visas
made available to people seeking permanent residency in the USA. Sixteen
thousand of the visas will go to Irish nationals.

Albania
Algeria
Argentina
Austria
Belgium
Bermuda
Czechoslovakia
Denmark
Estonia
Finland
France
Germany
Gibraltar
Great Britian
Guadeloupe
Hungary
Iceland
Indonesia
Ireland
Italy
Japan
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Monaco
New Caledonia
The Netherlands
Norway
Poland
San Marino
Sweden
Switzerland
Tunisia

Source: State Department

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Bill Perry, USA TODAY; PHOTO; b/w, Jim Sulley, AP

CUTLINE: MAILING HOPES: Sam Sankoh from England heads a line of people dropping
off visa applications at the Merrifield Post Office in Virginia. Most people
said they submitted more than 100 applications. CUTLINE: IN NEW YORK CITY: An
estimated 150,000 visa applications are loaded onto a truck for the beginning of
their trip to Merrifield.

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              101 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 14, 1991, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Gamble for the good life

BYLINE: Bruce Frankel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 138 words


The mad dash is over - and the waiting begins - for immigrants hoping to win
permanent U.S. residence in a rare visa lottery.

The prize: ''green cards'' for the first 40,000 whose applications are
postmarked after 12: 01 a.m. today.

Winners - 40% of whom must be Irish - will be notified by Nov. 30.

In Boston, where a third of residents have Irish ancestry, immigrants mailed
thousands of applications daily.

''It's worth it to get the freedom to come and go,'' said Seamus O'Tighnearigh,
who moved to Boston from Ireland three years ago.

Sunday, hundreds of hopefuls milled around the Fairfax County, Va., post office
that's handling the expected 10 million applications.

A 1990 law created this lottery - and ones in 1992 and 1993 - to increase ethnic
diversity and boost immigration from specific countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              102 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 15, 1991, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Immigration mailings: 13 million and counting

BYLINE: Bruce Frankel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 337 words


More than 13 million applications have flooded post offices in a mailing frenzy
for the nation's largest immigration lottery that began Monday.

And the entries keep coming, although postal officials speculate that anything
mailed now will have a slim-to-none chance of snagging one of the 40,000 visas.

Applicants technically have until Oct. 20 to file.

Although just a day into the counting, the avalanche of responses already has
raised the ire of ethnic advocates who want the first-come, first-granted method
of picking ''green card'' winners changed.

Most of the permanent residency slots - 16,000 - will go to Irish applicants,
and 24,000 will go to others from 34 mostly European countries.

A 1990 law created the lottery - along with competitions set for 1992 and 1993 -
to increase ethnic diversity.

Advocates are challenging Congress to come up with a truer lottery using random,
computer selection.

Many complain government and postal personnel weren't prepared for the lottery.

''It's absolutely insane,'' says Niall O'Dowd, publisher of The Irish Voice
newspaper.

''It was a process without dignity, without any saving grace, and not what it
was meant to be - fair and equitable, without putting people through this
humiliation,'' Dowd said about the Saturday mobs at the Merrifield, Va., postal
station.

Tens of thousands of people desperate to escape their underground lives as
illegal aliens or leave their native lands have spent millions of dollar on
stamps and envelopes to increase their chances of winning.

In the end, postal workers took less than 30 minutes to verify the first 40,000
applications. At least 400,000 already have been sent to the State Department,
including 7 million applications that arrived too early and have been
disqualified, says postal spokesman Robert Faruq. Winners should be notified by
Nov. 30.

''It's too bad they didn't think this out more carefully,'' says Chicago- based
Eva Betka, executive director of American Polish Congress in Illinois.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              103 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 17, 1991, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Don't fear immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 330 words


For 40,000 immigrants this week, getting to stay in this country legally will
come down to the luck of the draw.

More than 7 million applications for the government's green-card lottery have
arrived in the Merrifield, Va., post office since 12: 01 Monday, the official
kickoff time. The lottery is a special effort to make up for past years'
underrepresentation from some countries.

The first 40,000 valid applicants will be notified on Nov. 30 that they've been
granted permanent-resident visas. About 30,000 people descended on Merrifield
Sunday night in a chaotic effort to boost their chances.

This bizarre sideshow is the latest lurch to balance U.S. immigration policy.
Most allowed in through this lottery will be European, and 40% will be Irish.

Absolute fairness is elusive when it comes to deciding who can live here. The
country uses several methods to achieve it. The lottery is one unwieldy but
well-intended example. Quotas by country, giving preference to wealthy
entrepreneurs and reuniting immigrants' families are others.

The easiest and most big-hearted way to be fair would be to open the door to
all. Unfortunately, the nation can't accommodate all who might wish to enter.

But that door should be open as wide as possible. This is a nation of
immigrants, and though some must always be excluded, the country's best
interests are served by allowing more, not fewer.

In city after city, immigrants have filled dwindling labor pools and revitalized
neighborhoods. They have diversified the culture and made us part of the bigger
world. New York City's 2.5 million foreign-born residents have spurred the
economy, stayed off welfare and steered clear of homelessness.

Immigrants are to be embraced, not feared. Little by little, we're shaking off
the unfairness that excluded various groups in the past.

Forty thousand new permanent residents will probably be feeling lucky on Nov.
30. But it's the nation as a whole that's lucky to get them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate is on the nation's IMMIGRATION POLICY and
whether we should relax immigration laws.; OUR VIEW; New immigrants are a
welcome addition to the USA. Don't fear them; welcome them.

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              104 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 2, 1991, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Wave of Haitian immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 20 words


Legal Haitian immigrants to USA(1):
'90      20,324

1- not included, 41 accorded refugee status

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; color, Marty Baumann, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service, U.S. Committee for Refugees, Stand alone graphic (Line
graph)

TYPE: Snapshot

Complete text unavailable -- please see microfiche.

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              105 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 24, 1991, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Don't open floodgates

BYLINE: Dan Stein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 291 words


Offering ''temporary'' asylum to Haitians poses two basic problems: Temporary
asylum always turns out to be permanent. And it would encourage tens, perhaps
hundreds, of thousands of people from that impoverished country, who do not face
individual political persecution, to head for the United States.

Like our wealthy allies in Europe, America is being overwhelmed by millions of
poor people as Third World populations explode. Immigration is at all-time
highs, and fairness to our own poor and our posterity demands that we set
limits. By interdicting those fleeing poverty, our government is protecting our
future.

Our immigration policy does not discriminate against Haitians. Since 1980, we
have admitted nearly 140,000; some 1 million - a sixth of that country's
population - now reside in the USA.

Some claim that if admitted, these Haitians eventually will go home. That won't
happen. Each time ''temporary protection'' has been granted to other
nationalities, the claimants never have been willing to leave. Rather, they
quickly put down roots. Taxpayers, already reeling from the cost of absorbing
large numbers of poor immigrants, would be forced to pick up the tab for health,
education and other social services.

Admitting anyone who climbs into a leaky boat would invite thousands more to do
the same. Half the people who attempt this trip never make it. The ocean and the
sharks would claim far more lives than the junta ever could.

So long as our government carefully identifies and protects those who can show a
genuine fear of persecution, the interdiction program accords with international
law and should continue.

Interdiction is the only sensible - and responsible - policy imaginable under
the circumstances.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate is on the HAITIAN REFUGEES and whether they
should be returned or allowed to stay.; OPPOSING VIEW; The United States is in
danger of being swamped by millions of the world's poor.; Dan Stein is executive
director, Federation for American Immigration Reform.

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              106 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 25, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Congress must protect Chinese students

BYLINE: Nancy Pelosi, Guest columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 387 words


Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., is author of the Chinese student visa bill.

 WASHINGTON - The question before the Senate is whether there is a need for
overriding the president's veto of H.R. 2712, the Emergency Chinese Immigration
Relief Act.

The answer is an emphatic yes!

This need exists for two reasons:

- Because of the continuing repression in China.

- Because we can give legal protection to Chinese students only by changing the
law.

Since the spring of 1989, the Chinese government has engaged first in a
massacre, then a masquerade.

On June 4, the world watched in horror as tanks rolled in to crush non- violent
dissenters in Tiananmen Square. Following the slaughter in Tiananmen Square, the
Chinese government engaged in denial and repression. It denied the hundreds of
deaths.

The truth is that the world saw the killing of students in the square. We know
that thousands more were sent to labor camps where they continue to languish.

The masquerade continued as the Chinese government announced its empty gesture
of lifting martial law. Empty because China retained the ability to crush
dissent with other laws. Empty because, in the wake of the Romanian uprising,
the rulers in Beijing arrested more ''counter-revolutionaries.''

Clearly, the situation in China warrants an override of the veto.

An override is also necessary because only a law will remove all doubt from the
minds of Chinese students who live in our country and who fear arrest if they
return home. Immigration law prohibits a waiver of the home residence visa
requirement for Chinese students. A presidential directive will not change the
law - only a new law will. And, since the Constitution states, ''Congress shall
make all laws,'' an act of Congress is required.

Following the Tiananmen Square massacre, I set out to write a bill that would
protect the students and that would not be disruptive of our own immigration
policy.

Congress responded unanimously in support of the bill. This support was fully
bipartisan. The president then vetoed the bill.

I believe we must stand by our ideals of democracy and free speech. As Thomas
Jefferson said, we must swear ''eternal hostility against every form of tyranny
over the mind of man.'' The House has acted. It is now time for the Senate to
override the veto.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w (Nancy Pelosi)

TYPE: Opinion

Ribbon Label; FACE-OFF; OVERRIDING THE PRESIDENT'S VETO; 2

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              107 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 13, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

TEXAS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 110 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW


Immigration officials expect plan to detain up to 10,000 illegal aliens in
347-acre tent compound will discourage expected surge of Central Americans
seeking asylum. More than 50,000 Central Americans applied for asylum in south
Texas in '88, '89. ... RICHARDSON - As many as 50 non- teaching jobs may be
eliminated through attrition by July due to $ 1.1 million cut in state funding
for Richardson Independent School District, officials said. Cuts amount to 1.5%
of district's 3,800 jobs....- ... DALLAS - James M. Williams, 32, was in serious
condition at Parkland Memorial Hospital after parachuting onto power lines in
southeast county, officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              108 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 19, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

IDAHO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 66 words

DATELINE: POCATELLO


Preventing INS officials from deporting Imelda Cantraro, her 3 children to
Nicaragua, is joint project of residents here, in Inkom. Cantraro expected April
deportation, but hearing now is delayed until September. ... BOISE - 750 are
expected at hearings today, Tuesday on 13 abortion bills at Boise State
University. Interest prompted officials to move debate from Capitol to larger
site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              109 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 27, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 104 words

DATELINE: ALBANY


State was put on Creditwatch list by Moody's Investors Service. Moody's cited
state's fiscal problems, said Gov. Cuomo must cut spending, raise revenues to
salvage state's A-1 bond rating. ... POUGHKEEPSIE - Brian Britton, 17, got
25-years-to-life term for March '89 slaying of parents, brother. Judge rejected
defense claim that Britton was abused child. ... NEW YORK - Job bias against
undocumented immigrants is common due to employers' fear of penalties, says
state Inter-Agency Task Force on Immigration Affairs report due Wednesday.
Cited: 51% of 70,000 firms surveyed acknowledged ignorance of immigration laws.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              110 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      March 9, 1990, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Red Wings' Probert says drug arrest turned life around

BYLINE: Kevin Allen

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 448 words

DATELINE: DETROIT


Bob Probert says his arrest one year ago, for bringing cocaine from Canada to
the USA, ''was the best thing that could have happened to me.''

In his first interview since his arrest March 2, 1989, and subsequent
conviction, Probert said Thursday, ''I look back now, I can see the self-
destructive course my life was on. My activities off the ice were totally
unmanageable. I'm lucky I didn't hurt anyone.

''I had a low self-esteem, a problem handling success. When things were going
well, I'd think, 'OK, Bob, it's time to screw up.' ''

Probert met with six reporters after he worked out on the ice with Detroit Red
Wings assistant coach Colin Campbell.

No tape recorders were allowed, and attorney Harold Fried wouldn't let Probert
answer questions about his legal battles, treatment for substance abuse or his
lifestyle before his arrest. Fried said those subjects were off- limits because
Probert's situation is unsettled with the National Hockey League and U.S.
immigration officials.

Probert, who lives in a Detroit substance-abuse halfway house, was issued a
90-day work permit Wednesday. He is awaiting a ruling on his appeal of a
deportation order by an Immigration and Naturalization Service judge.

Probert also awaits NHL President John Ziegler's ruling on the Red Wings'
request that he be reinstated. The Red Wings aren't saying when Probert might be
ready to play.

Probert, who in the past was uncomfortable with the media, was upbeat and
uncharacteristically talkative during the session.

''I blame myself for this,'' said Probert, who served a three-month sentence at
the Federal Medical Center in Rochester, Minn. ''It was good I went there
because it opened my eyes. I realized in that situation how powerless I am.''

Probert got to know imprisoned evangelist Jim Bakker at the Federal Medical
Center and took a test to get his General Education Degree. Probert dropped out
of school when he was 17.

Probert, about 15 pounds heavier than his ideal playing weight of 210, met for a
closed-door meeting with coach Jacques Demers after Thursday's skating session.

''I didn't talk to him as a hockey player. I talked to him as a human being,''
Demers said. ''I liked the way he was talking: alert, smart. He's changed.''

Minutes before, Demers had marveled at Probert's ability while watching him
skate under Campbell's direction.

''He looks like he should be a tight end for the Detroit Lions,'' Demers said.
''Look at the way he skates and shoots. That's not a man who hasn't been on the
ice for a year.''

Probert was tired by the end of the workout but said he felt good. ''I've worked
harder in the last four days than I have in the last four years.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              111 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 30, 1990, Friday, FINAL EDITION

ELSEWHERE IN THE WORLD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 336 words


SOUTH AFRICA FIGHTING: Anti-apartheid leaders Nelson Mandela and Mangosuthu
Buthelezi, who heads the Inkatha movement, agreed Thursday to hold an
unprecedented joint peace rally Monday in an effort to stop fighting in Natal
province that has killed 25 people in two days. The antagonists disagree on how
to end apartheid.

CONTADORA GROUP: Mexico, Colombia and Venezuela have disbanded the Contadora
group that worked for peace in Central America, saying their mission was
fulfilled.

INDIA-AIRBUS: India's top investigating agency accused four former government
officials of accepting bribes from Airbus Industrie to award a $ 1.47 billion
contract to the European consortium. The investigation began after an Indian
Airlines A320 crashed Feb. 14 while landing at Bangalore, killing 92 of 146
aboard.

COLOMBIA EXTRADITIONS: The Medellin cocaine cartel hinted it will retaliate for
Colombia's renewed extradition of drug suspects to the United States. The cartel
claimed it had been betrayed by officials who began, but backed out of, talks to
end bloody fighting.

GERMAN COALITION: East Germany's two major parties agreed on a plan for its
first free government while protesters demanded the ouster from Parliament of
members who had ties to the secret police.

MACAO-CHINA: Macao police arrested at least 1,000 people in order to control a
mob of 50,000 illegal Chinese immigrants who were demanding to be included in an
immigration amnesty for 4,200 relatives of Macao residents.

BELGIUM-ABORTION: Belgium legalized abortion after years of campaigning by
feminists and a handful of politicians to lift a century-old ban.

AND IN CZECHOSLOVAKIA: After 12 hours of debate, Parliament agreed to change the
country's name - sort of. Henceforth, it will be known as the ''Czecho- Slovak
Federative Republic'' in Slovenia. Elsewhere, it's the ''Czechoslovak Federative
Republic.'' Slovaks insisted the hyphen made an important linguistic difference.

Compiled by Timothy Kenny

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Elsewhere in the World

Accompanying story; British firm linked to Iraq deals

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              112 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      April 9, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Topic: JEWS & PASSOVER;
It is a good time for a message of freedom

BYLINE: Barbara Reynolds

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 865 words


Shula Bahat, 48, is the acting director of the American Jewish Committee. The
committee is a human rights organization that was established in 1906. Bahat was
interviewed by USA TODAY's Barbara Reynolds about the emigration of Soviet Jews
and other major issues that are confronting Jews as they start the observance of
the religious holiday of Passover today.

 USA TODAY: Passover, which begins tonight, celebrates the Jewish exodus from
Egypt. Are there similar fears and hopes as a modern exodus of Jews from the
Soviet Union takes place?

BAHAT: The symbolic elements are there clearly when we are expecting great
numbers of Soviet Jews to leave the Soviet Union and to settle in Israel. When
we're expecting other people as well to gain their freedom. Passover is really
about freedom. But while some Jews in the Soviet Union have a little bit more
freedom now, we have to remember that there are Jews in Ethiopia, there are Jews
in Arab countries, who do not experience the same freedom.

 USA TODAY: How do you feel about U.S. limits on Soviet Jews immigrating?

BAHAT: First of all, the U.S. immigration law does not deal necessarily with
Jews alone. It deals with all immigrants and refugees from these countries. I
think a lot of it has to do with budgetary situations. At the same time, more
people could come this year than in previous years. The United States is much
more generous than other countries.

 USA TODAY: Do a lot of Soviet Jews want to come to the USA?

BAHAT: The interesting thing is that many of the Jews in the Soviet Union really
opt to go to Israel. In spite of its size, Israel has the capacity to absorb
them.

 USA TODAY: There are still many reports of anti-Semitism in the Soviet Union.
Why is that?

BAHAT: Glasnost, which really brought about a new openness and enabled people in
the Soviet Union to express themselves, enabled also the expression of various
extremist points of view. About a month and a half ago, we helped sponsor a
survey in Moscow and its environs. Of those surveyed, 48% noted that there is a
rise in anti-Semitism in the Soviet Union. If you take that, plus the various
media reports and eyewitness reports, I think there is a reason for us to be
concerned.

 USA TODAY: Are the Soviet Jews emigrating to Israel being settled in the
occupied territories?

BAHAT: They have the freedom of choice to settle wherever they want. It's a
minuscule number, and I think much was made out of it in the media. It is
connected with the fact that Arab countries always rejected the notion of Jewish
emigration.

 USA TODAY: Is anti-Semitism increasing in the USA?

BAHAT: I wouldn't call it an increasing amount. It's a relatively stable,
hard-core anti-Semitism in the United States, according to various studies and
surveys. It afflicts not more than 5% of the population. Of course, you have the
skinheads and neo-Nazis, and here and there people like David Duke manage to be
elected (in Louisiana . But the U.S. is the kind of political and social system
that I don't believe will enable anti-Semitism ever to flourish. One of the
major missions of our organization is precisely to prevent that - not just that,
any form of bigotry.

 USA TODAY: The Israeli government is in disarray because of the conflict
between hardliners and those who favor further peace talks. What are the
prospects for peace?

BAHAT: It's a very difficult conflict. But I'm an optimist, and I believe it
could be resolved if the Arab countries are willing to accept the existence of a
Jewish state. The United States has a very important role in making sure that
the process will continue. I surely hope that as soon as a new government is put
together that the peace talks will be, again, the first item on the agenda.

 USA TODAY: How can this problem be solved?

BAHAT: How it will be resolved, I don't know. I know it will be, because there
is a desire in Israel for that. I hope that the mood in the world will also
bring about a real desire among Arabs to engage in peaceful resolution of the
conflict.

 USA TODAY: Soon?

BAHAT: It may take longer than we think. I don't know that it will come in the
kind of sweeping change as it did in Eastern Europe.

 USA TODAY: Will Palestinians ever get a separate state?

BAHAT: It's very difficult for me to say that. It could be a confederation with
Jordan. Jordan has a very large majority of Palestinians. I don't know that
there is economic viability and political viability in the West Bank or Gaza,
frankly, to be able to.

 USA TODAY: Are you concerned that in trying to help the fledgling democracies
in Eastern Europe, the USA will reduce its aid to Israel?

BAHAT: I certainly hope not. I think the United States can accommodate both the
needs of its more seasoned allies, such as Israel and Egypt, as well as the East
European situation. I also believe that the situation in East Europe and
economic viability of the countries of East Europe should be of great interest
to European countries and they should participate in the economic buildup of
their neighbors. I think Japan ought to be involved in any plan to build and to
help these countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w (Shula Bahat)

CUTLINE: Shula Bahat

TYPE: Inquiry

Accompanying story; Passover time for family and retelling the story

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              113 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      April 9, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

PUERTO RICO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 61 words

DATELINE: SAN JUAN


Use of metal detectors, extra security measures begins today at Capitol when
lawmakers debate bill to privatize Puerto Rico Telephone Co. Bill faces strong
labor opposition, has support of ruling Popular Democratic Party. ... MAYAGUEZ -
50 Dominican undocumented immigrants arrested on Desecheo Island were brought
here in Coast Guard boat, handed over to INS.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              114 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 11, 1990, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

CALIFORNIA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 105 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Police are analyzing blood sample from Darshan Grewal, 43 - driver of car in
Saturday traffic accident that killed Adam DeJesus, 19. DeJesus is son of Marcy
DeJesus, director of state MADD. ... Ernesto Medrano, 28, seeks lawyers' fees, $
500 damages in wrongful-arrest claim against INS. Medrano is U.S. citizen, says
he was detained when agents scoured airport for undocumented immigrants March
29. ... SAN FRANCISCO - T-shirts, other items that carry political, religious
messages are protected by First Amendment, federal court ruled. Their sale on
sidewalks undercuts legitimate businesses, city says. Appeal is planned.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              115 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 12, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Visa question could be sticky

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 86 words


Even if striking jai alai players win their battle, the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service might not renew foreigners' visas.

For them to get a visa, fronton owners must sign a letter stating that the
foreigners have playing skills that can't be found normally in the USA. With
U.S. citizens being used as replacement players, that situation has changed.

''I don't know how ... we could sign that letter again,'' says Paul Rico,
general manager for World Jai Alai, owner of four Florida frontons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Sportstalk

Accompanies; Strike drags on in speedy jai alai

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              116 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 13, 1990, Friday, FINAL EDITION

TEXAS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 82 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN


Ban on afternoon, most night bay shrimping was OK'd by state regulators despite
protests from shrimpers that conservation measure would harm business. Ban takes
effect May 15 - opening of shrimping season. $ 580 million-yearly industry
employs 20,000. ... SAN ANTONIO - Parts of 2,000-mile- long Texas-Mexico border
went unprotected last summer after regional INS officials cut $ 2.3 million from
budget to help finance move to posh Dallas office building, San Antonio Light
reported.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              117 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 19, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Cuban refugees making new life;
From boatlift to prosperity

BYLINE: Jeanne DeQuine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 579 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Nelson Peraza came to Florida in 1980 leaving Cuba in a boatlift from the port
city of Mariel.

''I was never able to get along with the regime,'' says Peraza, 48, once a
Havana cabbie. ''There is freedom here.''

Peraza, now a service station manager, and his family are among 125,000
immigrants who came from Cuba over several months a decade ago.

They jammed into Miami, hungry and confused, living at first in tents and a
stadium.

''We were totally unprepared,'' says City Manager Cesar Odio. But city officials
and the Marielitos, as they are called, have come to terms.

Some of the 100,000 Mariel immigrants in the city are still in economic limbo,
but many others have prospered.

''It's definitely a mixed bag,'' says Juan Clark, a Miami-Dade Community College
sociology professor who has studied the Marielitos. ''I think it was both good
and bad for Miami.''

About 80 percent of the Marielitos remain in south Florida and most of them are
productive workers, studies show.

Some of them have been as successful as other Cuban immigrants over the past 30
years. Most of the Marielitos have become naturalized citizens or legal resident
aliens.

But many had problems:

- Some Marielitos were hard-core criminals who had been released from Cuban
prisons. Others were convicted of crimes in the USA.

- About 2,600 Marielitos who have completed prison sentences remain in federal
detention centers.

- Many who came had no families or acquaintances to help them adjust. ''The
amount of family separation that took place is a negative factor in their
adjustment,'' Clark says.

- Others faced communism-capitalism culture shock. In Cuba ''there's an element
of paternalism,'' says Clark. Marielitos ''learned the hard way those values
they brought did not help them here.''

For the Marielitos still in detention, the prospect for freedom, either in the
USA or in Cuba, is uncertain. Some could face deportation to Cuba.

''They have demonstrated through individual acts that they are not productive
members of our society,'' says Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman
Duke Austin.

But Miami lawyer Rafael Penalver says detained Marielitos are in ''lockdown
conditions. It's against everything American justice stands for.''

Experts say most Marielitos now are contributing to the community. ''Mariel
entrants were tremendously successful to the economies of Miami and Hialeah,''
says economist Jorge Salazar Carrillo of Florida International University.

Enrique Garcia is a prime example. He and his family arrived in May 1980 with no
money, and he began cleaning houses for $ 15 a day. The family now runs an
employment agency. ''We are grateful to be here,'' Garcia says.

Despite success, Garcia says, he wants to return to Cuba. One study found most
Marielitos would go back if Cuban President Fidel Castro were ousted.

Peraza says he, too, would return if the Cuban government were to change. His
parents still live there.

''I miss Cuba so much,'' he says. ''I have a dream of returning to live in
freedom.''

TEXT OF GRAPHIC
Marielitos: Most in Fla.
About 125,000 Cubans came to the USA in the 1980 Mariel boatlift. What happened
to them in this country:
Living in Florida         100,000
Settled elsewhere          18,200
Still in U.S. prisons       2,600
Jailed then released        3,800
Deported to Cuba              391

Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service (Chart); PHOTO;
b/w, Tom Salyer (Refugees,Nelson and Teresa Peraza, sons Nelson Jr. and Joshua);
PHOTO; b/w, AP (Refugees, Cuban)

CUTLINE: SECOND HOME: Nelson and Teresa Peraza with Nelson Jr., 12, and Joshua,
18 months. 'I miss Cuba so much,' Nelson says. CUTLINE: ON NEW SHORES: Refugees
from Cuba arrive at Key West, Fla., in 1980. About 125,000 arrived over several
months.

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              118 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 6, 1990, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

DEBATE;
Let's crack down on trade-school abuses

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 544 words


From the beginning, immigrants came to this country in search of opportunities
and with dreams of a better life.

So it is not surprising that millions of our newest legal aliens, under the
immigration amnesty program, have sought a better life through their eligibility
for $ 5,000 student loans backed by the government.

Many were recruited by some for-profit trade - or proprietary - schools with
grandiose promises of better jobs as auto mechanics, cosmetologists or
bartenders.

They were not alone. Welfare mothers, inner-city kids and the homeless have also
been targeted by a few shady schools more interested in their loans than their
education.

In too many cases, instead of dreams, they have gotten nightmares. Instead of
professional trades, they have gotten unprofessional training. Instead of
better-paying jobs, they have gotten deeper in debt, defaulting on loans.

Among the abused:

- Emiliano Herrera's $ 5,500 loan paid for a three-month auto-repair course at a
Long Beach, Calif., school that didn't have a garage or cars to work on.

- Madeline Polanco was taking computer-programming courses at the Adelphi
Institute in New York when it declared bankruptcy. Even though she could not
complete her studies, she still had to repay the $ 3,000 loan.

- Sherry Barnes, a former student of the Health Care Institute in Louisville,
Ky., took out thousands of dollars in loans to get training for jobs in medical
offices and nursing homes. The school, which had no admission standards and few
supplies or medical equipment, went bankrupt, too.

In a semi-annual report released this week, the Department of Education's
inspector general cited continued abuses in the USA's $ 13 billion student aid
programs. Student loan defaults are expected to cost taxpayers $ 2 billion in
1990. Trade schools represent 33% of those defaults compared with 7% for the
traditional four-year institution.

Among other abuses by some trade schools:

- Low admission standards resulting in unqualified students - some with little
command of the English language.

- Padded courses to qualify for loan programs.

- Ill-trained teachers and inadequate facilities.

- Schools pocketing loans after students dropped out.

Representatives of legitimate trade schools, including the writer across the
page, say more regulations would only hurt those disadvantaged students they are
trying to help.

The fact is, we're all being victimized: The good trade school whose reputation
is tarnished by the bad ones; the student who loses his or her chance at an
education; and the taxpayer who must pick up the tab on defaulted loans.

The Education Department, Congress and states have all begun cracking down. But
Congress must go further by barring use of commissioned recruiters and by
requiring entrance exams by third parties, proper credit checks on all loans,
and permanent policies on refunds.

This nation was built by pioneers with dreams. That is why we must make every
effort to keep the door to opportunity open to all who deserve it.

But we shouldn't hesitate to slam it shut on shoddy operations that cynically
exploit our most disadvantaged.

TEXT OF CARTOON

THE TAXPAYER

TRADE SCHOOL RIP-OFF

''YOU WANTED TO LEARN A TRADE, DIDN'T YOU?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON; b/w, David Seavey, USA TODAY (Drawing, Men pickpocketing)

TYPE: Opinion

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              119 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 12, 1990, Tuesday, FIRST EDITION

62 seized in reputed smuggling scheme

BYLINE: Wendi Warner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 308 words


Federal agents Monday charged 62 Chinese citizens with being illegal aliens,
claiming they were part of a Panamanian scheme to smuggle 35,000 Chinese into
the USA.

They were arrested as they arrived in two groups Saturday and Monday at the
Fairhope, Ala., airport.

''There's a real strong possibility'' ex-Panamanian leader Manuel Noriega or his
lieutenants were involved, said U.S. Customs agent Gary Small of Mobile, Ala.

Noriega, awaiting trial on drug charges in Miami, apparently made it easy for
Chinese refugees to enter Panama.

Reputed smuggling ringleader Alfonso Mock-Castillo and associate Rosana Butcher
were also arrested. Mock had negotiated with undercover customs agents for the
smugglers to be brought in, Small said.

Small said officials believed the flights were the first to come into Alabama
involving the reputed smuggling operation, but he said smugglers of all types
have come to consider south Alabama ''a nice place to do business.''

The Chinese apparently paid $ 10,000 in Panama to leave, while family members in
the USA were also extorted, Small said. He called payment of $ 20,000 to $
30,000 a ''conservative'' estimate.

The smugglers stood to make more than $ 200 million in profits had their plan
worked, authorities said.

The Chinese were believed destined for Mobile, New York, Los Angeles, Miami,
Atlanta, Detroit and other cities.

They will be given immigration hearings at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service detention center in El Paso, where most of them were being held Monday.

''Knowing the political situation in China, I'm sure they'll claim political
asylum,'' Small said.

About 35,000 of the estimated 95,000 Chinese in Panama want to enter the USA, he
said.

Customs is fighting hard to crack such schemes, Small said, because ''we know
these people are being exploited.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              120 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    June 27, 1990, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Immigration spurs return to Norway

BYLINE: Dick Patrick

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 190 words


Norway's Ingrid Kristiansen, considered the world's top female distance runner,
has run into trouble with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The flap ended her temporary residence in Boulder, Colo., and jeopardizes her
future in U.S. racing.

Kristiansen, who holds world records in the 5,000 and 10,000 meters, plus the
marathon, has won the Boston and New York City marathons.

In the summer of 1989, Kristiansen, her husband, Arve, and their son, Gaute,
moved from Oslo to Boulder, where Arve was a graduate student at the University
of Colorado.

Though the Kristiansens say they applied for visa extensions, their requests
were not processed.

Last spring, they became overstayers, meaning they could be barred from
re-entering the USA.

They returned to Oslo, where Kristiansen is expecting a second child, and are
planning to sell their Boulder home.

Arve told the newsletter Running Stats that the family paid $ 220,000 in U.S.
taxes on earnings estimated at $ 770,000.

''We think this will be embarrassing in Norway because Norwegians consider the
U.S. their strongest and closest friend,'' Arve said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Ernie Leyba (Ingrid Kristiansen)

CUTLINE: INGRID KRISTIANSEN: Top runner leaves Boulder.

TYPE: Sportstalk

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              121 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 12, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

MAINE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 67 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND


Fire Dept. vowed to make sure Southeast Asian immigrants know emergency
assistance is free. Vietnamese refugee Du Hugnh, 6 kids waited outside burning
apartment Tuesday, didn't call for help because she feared she'd have to pay.
... JAY - OSHA cited 13 violations, proposed $ 24,400 fine against International
Paper Co. Mill hasn't decided on contesting citations, said it will meet safety
rules.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              122 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 24, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Soviet hockey star missing, reported to be defecting

BYLINE: Denise Tom

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 479 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


Sergei Fedorov, a center on the Soviet national hockey team, was missing from
the squad that traveled five hours Monday from Portland, Ore., to Kennewick,
Wash., for Goodwill Games matches.

Fedorov, 20, a fourth-round draft pick of the Detroit Red Wings in 1989, was
last seen by team officials Sunday night after he was ejected in the second
period from an exhibition game against the U.S. team.

''We are aware he is not with the team,'' Richard Smith, district director for
the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service in Seattle, said in an
Associated Press report.

TBS reported Monday night that Fedorov had defected and the Red Wings confirmed
it. But Barbara Smith of the Seattle Organizing Committee said, ''As of right
now, there is no defection.''

Even if Fedorov did decide to defect, the INS has said ''Soviet visitors would
have no chance of qualifying for asylum,'' Leroy Jacques, organizer of the
Rotary Goodwill Exchange, said in a July 12 Seattle Times story. The exchange is
a people-to-people program responsible for 1,500 Soviet tourists in Seattle for
the Games.

That article also said the State Department and INS officials ''confirmed that
it would be virtually impossible for any Soviet athlete and spectators for the
Games to defect'' because of the thaw in USA-Soviet relations.

 'OFFICIAL' DRUNKS: Near Husky Stadium, site of the track and field competition,
two men set up a sign declaring themselves ''Official panhandlers, 1990 Goodwill
Games.'' Said one: ''This morning, we were drinking the official wine of the
Goodwill Games, so now we're officially drunk.'' Said the other: ''We're going
to take an official nap.''

 WALKOUT THREAT: The Goodwill Games' press operations management staff was
threatening to walk off the job Monday night.

International Event Management, Ltd., contracted by the Seattle Organizing
Committee to handle press operations, cited ''a breach of contract'' with the
SOC and started packing their offices in the Main Press Center Monday night.

IEM staff includes managers and supervisors responsible for computer results,
publications and press services at the athletic venues.

 BIGGER LOSSES FOR TBS?: Ted Turner said Monday that Turner Broadcasting System
Inc. could lose as much as $ 26 million on the Goodwill Games, doubling earlier
projections by the company. Asked if losses this summer would equal the $ 26
million shortfall from the 1986 Games in Moscow, the TBS board chairman said the
deficit would be ''in that range.''

But Turner was upbeat that the international athletic event will increase world
exposure for TBS and help the Atlanta-based company market its Cable News
Network and other services abroad. ''We're very happy with the way things are
going in the Goodwill Games,'' Turner said.

 Contributing: Karen Allen, Michael Hurd, David Leon Moore, John Pitts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Ribbon Label; GOODWILL GAMES; 9 FIRST; 1 FIRST CHASE; 10 FINAL

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              123 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 28, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

TEXAS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 108 words

DATELINE: EL PASO


Mayors from USA, Mexico border states meet here Sept. 5-7 in 1st conference to
tackle environment, public safety, economic development, tourism, immigration,
customs. Sessions will be here, in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. ... AUSTIN - Patricia
Morris, Scott Davis, Joseph Henry were indicted on charges of defrauding state
of $ 1.8 million in motor fuel taxes, officials said. They're accused of running
bogus fuel supply firm. ...
RICHARDSON - University of Texas at Dallas gets its 1st freshman class Thursday.
UTD has served juniors, seniors, grad students for 21 years; got OK to become
4-year university last year. 145 freshmen will report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              124 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 31, 1990, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Opening doors to U.S. heritage at Ellis Island

BYLINE: Darcy Reid Trick

SECTION: BONUS; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 170 words


When Ellis Island reopens its doors Sept. 10, heritage buffs - not immigrants -
will be on its welcome mat.

The former immigration station, which sits on a 27.5-acre island in New York
Harbor, has undergone a six-year, $ 156 million face lift to transform its main
building into a free museum.

It was the first stop for some 12 million immigrants between 1892
to 1924.   ''This is the island where the American dream started, a

place we hope will evoke stories of each person's past,'' says Stephen Briganti,
president, Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation Inc.

Visitors will enter the museum through the baggage room, just as the immigrants
did, pass through the Great Hall, where immigrants were processed for arrival,
and end the tour at the railroad office.

Ellis Island is about a 10-minute ferry ride ($ 6, adults; $ 3, children) from
Battery Park in Manhattan or Liberty State Park near Jersey City, N.J.
- COMING SEPT. 4: A special report in USA TODAY on Ellis Island

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; color, Nick Cerulli (New York, Ellis Island)

FALL TRAVEL BONUS SECTION

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              125 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 4, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

The island's peak year

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 69 words


The flow of immigrants through Ellis Island peaked in 1907 at more than 1
million. Largest ethnic groups emigrating through the Port of New York that
year:
Italy         285,731
Russia(1)     258,943

Great Britain 79,037
Scandinavia    49,965
Germany        37,807

(1) - includes Baltic countries and Finland

Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  color, Elys McLean-Ibrahim, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service, Stand alone graphic (Drawing, Ellis Island, graph)

TYPE: Snapshot

USA'S GATEWAY SPECIAL SECTION

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              126 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 4, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Name changes: A story in dispute

BYLINE: Carol Memmott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 279 words


If your family name was Szepanski or Marconi in the old country and it was later
changed to Smith or Brown, don't blame the officials on Ellis Island.

''Part of the oral tradition of Ellis Island is that immigrant names were
changed on the island, but so far we have no documented cases,'' says Mary-
Angela Hardwick of MetaForm Inc., the firm that researched and designed all the
exhibits at Ellis Island.

Immigrants and their descendants tell a different tale.

''They tried to change everyone's name to make it sound American - and we were
happy to sound more American,'' says Louise Nagy, 85, of Edison, N.J., who
arrived from Poland in 1913.

Nagy says her family name was changed from the Polish ''Szulc'' to ''Schultz,''
the more common German variation.

Officials who processed immigrants at Ellis Island used ship passenger lists for
reference. Names may have been listed incorrectly at European ports by the
steamship companies, Hardwick suggests.

Other names may have been changed by well-meaning immigrant aid society
volunteers who thought newcomers would want to fit in.

''Many immigrants may have viewed the volunteers as Ellis Island officials,''
says Hardwick.

Other debunked myths:

- Not everyone who landed in New York had to go through Ellis Island. When
steamships docked in Manhattan, affluent immigrants traveling first- and
second-class were interviewed and allowed to disembark. Third-class, fourth-
class and steerage passengers were ferried to Ellis for processing.

- Ellis Island wasn't the only port of entry for newcomers. Thirty percent of
European immigrants came through ports such as Boston, Philadelphia and
Baltimore.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

USA'S GATEWAY SPECIAL SECTION

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              127 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 4, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

ELLIS ISLAND: THEN AND NOW;
A HOPEFUL FUTURE;
AN HONORED PAST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 72 words


The first national museum devoted to immigration opens Monday in New York
Harbor, a half mile away from the Statue of Liberty. The Ellis Island
immigration museum is in the building where millions of immigrants passed
through from 1892 to 1954. Here's a look at Ellis Island - then and now.

A HOPEFUL FUTURE
Newcomers faced an intimidating series of bureaucratic hurdles when they stepped
off the ferry at Ellis Island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Jeff Dionese, USA TODAY (Ellis Island, main building, floor plan, map,
New York City); PHOTO; b/w, The Hines Collection, New York Public Library (Ellis
Island, Immigrant family); PHOTO; b/w, The Bettemann Archive (Ellis Island,
Medical examination); PHOTO; b/w, The Bettemann Archive (Ellis Island,
Registration); PHOTO; b/w, The Bettemann Archive ( Ellis Island, Dining hall);
PHOTO; b/w (Ellis Island, Rail notice); PHOTO; b/w, The Betteman Archive ( Ellis
Island, Immigrants)

CUTLINE: THE FIRST STEP: An Italian family arrives at Ellis Island's main
building in 1905. Immigrants - brought by ferry from Manhattan's steamship piers
- deposited what in many cases were all their worldly belongings in the
ground-floor baggage room. Next they headed upstairs to the Registry Room for
medical and legal examinations. CUTLINE: MEDICAL EXAM: Doctors watched
passengers for signs of heart problems, eye disease or lameness as they climbed
the stairs - it was called the ''60- second medical exam.'' Those marked in
chalk with E (eye disease), H (heart ailment), Pg (pregnancy), X (mental
retardation) or X with a circle around it (insanity) were taken out of line and
held for further scrutiny. CUTLINE: 30 QUESTIONS: Immigrants waited in the
Registry Room - the room had passageways with metal railings before 1911; wooden
benches after that - to be called for the 30-question examination. What is your
name? Do you have a job? Are you an anarchist? Those who answered
unsatisfactorily were detained for a Board of Special Inquiry proceeding.
CUTLINE: DINING HALL: Most immigrants were in and out of Ellis Island in three
to five hours. Those who stayed longer slept in dormitories or the hospital. A
dining room served simple meals (there was even a kosher kitchen after 1911),
and a chapel offered worship services and on-the-spot weddings. CUTLINE:
DEPARTURE TIME: Tagged with the names of their destinations, immigrants who have
passed muster await ferries to shore. About one-third of Ellis Island immigrants
settled in the New York City area. The other two- thirds bought railroad tickets
and took ferries to New Jersey rail stations, where they headed to places
throughout the U.S.

USA'S GATEWAY SPECIAL SECTION

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              128 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 4, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

COMING TO AMERICA;
Symbolic door ready to reopen;
 Immigrants' past is part of the future

BYLINE: Bethany Kandel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 464 words

DATELINE: ELLIS ISLAND, N.Y.


For millions of immigrants seeking a new life in America, Ellis Island was the
door to the ''promised land.''

Now, after six years and a $ 156 million restoration, this gateway to freedom
reopens next week as a national museum celebrating the history of U.S.
immigration and the stories of the millions of newcomers who passed through here
from 1892 to 1954.

Sunday marks the dedication of the museum and the American Immigrant Wall of
Honor, along with a ceremony that includes the swearing-in of 50 new U.S.
citizens.

The museum - owned by the National Park Service, as part of the Statue of
Liberty National Monument - opens to the public on Monday and is expected to
draw 2 million to 5 million visitors a year.

''Ellis Island is a symbol of the hopes and dreams of all immigrants who came to
America looking for opportunity and freedom,'' says Stephen Briganti, president
of The Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation, which oversaw the museum's
development.

More than 40% of all living Americans can trace their roots to someone who came
through ''the Isle of Hope, Isle of Tears.'' Besides the 12 million who came
through Ellis Island, another 5 milion entered other Port of New York points.

Museum visitors will be able to retrace the immigrant-processing experience,
from the first view of this grand beaux arts building; through the Registry
Room, where hopefuls waited to see whether they passed inspection; and down the
''Staircase of Separation,'' where immigrants headed out to new lives or were
detained for possible deportation.

Only 2% - about 250,000 among the millions who came to the USA - were refused
entry and sent home at the expense of the steamship company that brought them.

Those detained: bigamists, anarchists, unaccompanied women, the mentally
defective and people with incurable diseases. The most common medical reason for
exclusion: trachoma, a contagious eye disease that can blind.

The museum is housed in Ellis Island's main building, which once processed 5,000
to 7,000 people a day. Mass immigration ceased after immigration quotas were set
in 1924, and the building was almost completely abandoned in 1954.

It was near ruin when renovations began in 1983: Pigeons swooped through rotting
rafters, salt water seeped through masonry and snow covered the floor.

Money for the renovation came entirely from corporations and private donations.
Individuals paid $ 100 and more to inscribe names of immigrant ancestors on the
American Immigrant Wall of Honor.

Another wall is planned for 1992. For more information, contact the Statue of
Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation Inc., 52 Vanderbilt Ave., New York, N.Y.
10017-3808.

Ellis Island story:
- Cost to build hall: $ 1.5 million
- Cost to renovate as a museum: $ 156 million

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; color, Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY (Ellis Island, Main Building);
PHOTO; b/w, National Park Service ( Ellis Island, Immigrants); PHOTO; b/w,
California Museum Photography (Emigration and Immigration, Boat of Immigrants)

CUTLINE: In 1907 - Ellis Island's peak year - The Glerum family of Holland,
below, stood on the brink of a new life.

USA'S GATEWAY SPECIAL SECTION

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              129 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 4, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Names on the wall

BYLINE: Gretchen Cook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 190 words


The Ellis Island foundation has raised $ 20 million in private donations through
the American Immigrant Wall of Honor, on which more than 200,000 immigrant and
family names have been inscribed. Descendants each paid $ 100 and more to
commemorate ancestors who came to the USA. Here are some of their stories:

ACCIDENTAL CROSSING: Katarina ''Kasha'' Hrinak Piatkowski came to the USA as a
girl from Czechoslovakia - her father intended to use the ticket, but he broke
his arm in a fall from a hay wagon and couldn't travel.

''The ship was in the water for 18 days,'' she remembers. ''When we saw the
Statue of Liberty, we all shouted, 'We are in America, America!' because we were
so happy.''

Mrs. Piatkowski, now 91, raised 12 children with her husband, John Piatkowski, a
Ukrainian-American. Daughter Mary Pullen, who lives near her parents in
Freehold, N.J., has placed her parents' name on the wall.

''I am very happy I am in this country because I know that in Europe it would
have been very hard to live to be 92 years old,'' says Mrs. Piatkowski. ''Our
life was beautiful in this country and I thank the Lord for America.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; color, George McNish, AP (Katarina Hrinak Piatkowski, daughter
Mary Pullen); PHOTO; color, Kevork Djansezian, AP (Rodney Clark)

CUTLINE: ELLIS CERTIFICATE: Katarina Hrinak Piatkowski at her Freehold, N.J.
home with daughter Mary Pullen. CUTLINE: MEMORIES: Rodney Clark with a photo of
his parents

USA'S GATEWAY SPECIAL SECTION

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              130 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    September 7, 1990, Friday, FINAL EDITION

A dream of a new life come true;
Ellis Island was gateway

BYLINE: Bethany Kandel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 541 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


When the Ellis Island National Museum of Immigration opens on Monday, it will
celebrate thousands of stories - including that of 90-year- old Nathan Solomon.

Solomon has lived the American dream. Sixty-seven years ago, he stepped onto
U.S. soil at Ellis Island and found what he was looking for: freedom,
opportunity, prosperity.

''The Statue of Liberty said to me, 'Become an American; truly American. Join
the opportunities. ... Take it and enjoy.' And I have,'' Solomon says in the
thick accent of his native Sambor, Poland.

On exhibit in the Ellis Island museum are some mementoes from Solomon's life: a
worn brown candy box, candy wrapper and notebook with his mother's candy
recipes.

In 1923, he left his family - and a successful family candy business - to escape
a growing anti-Jewish sentiment. His family was later wiped out during the
Holocaust.

Solomon was detained at Ellis Island for three weeks because he had trachoma, a
highly contagious eye disease that can cause blindness. He and other detainees -
those with medical problems or arrest records - slept in a dormitory.

''We entertained ourselves. We read papers, discussed politics and the future of
America,'' he recalls. At night, someone played a Polish mandolin and they sang.

Faced with deportation, Solomon threatened to throw himself into the ocean. The
Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society and a local congressman intervened, and he was
free.
One of the first things Solomon did was Americanize his name. His Polish name
was Naftuly Salamon.

Solomon has lived in Manhattan almost ever since leaving Ellis Island. At first,
he worked in the Loft candy factory for $ 27 a week, attending night school to
learn English.

After a hand injury ended his factory work, he became a partner in a cousin's
dairy store. Within three years he had parlayed his savings into five of his own
New York Butter and Egg Stores in Manhattan and Brooklyn, with the slogan
''Service with a smile.''

Solomon joined Federated Food Stores - which later became Pioneer stores - and
became president, overseeing 200 supermarkets in the 1940s.

Along the way, he became an American citizen and married Irene Oransky, ''a real
Yankee Doodle,'' who emigrated from Kiev, the Ukraine, at 6 months old. She died
in 1988 after 56 years of marriage.

They had two children: a daughter, Elaine Rossman, 56, who graduated Phi Beta
Kappa from Hunter College; and a son, Solomon S. Solomon, 53, a medical school
professor and chief of endocrinology at the Memphis veterans hospital.

Solomon - who also has five grandchildren and two-great-grandchildren - still
keeps going. Daily he writes poetry and works as a messenger for a Wall Street
commodity trading house. He lives in an apartment full of photos and knickknacks
in the shadow of Ellis Island.

The ''Yankee Doodle'' generations of Solomons say his journey through Ellis
Island has left a special imprint.

Granddaughter Joan Solomon - a first-year law student at Washington University
in St. Louis - is 23, the same age her grandfather was when he came through
Ellis Island.

''We owe the start of our family in America to Ellis Island,'' she says. ''He's
quite a survivor; a tough guy. If I had to, I hope I could do as well as he
did.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, Marty Baumann, USA TODAY (Map, Ellis Island); PHOTO; b/w, Robert
Deutsch, USA TODAY (New York - Ellis Island, Nathan Solomon)

CUTLINE: AT ELLIS ISLAND: On display at the museum are mementoes from Polish
immigrant Nathan Solomon's life: a worn brown candy box, candy wrapper, notebook
with his mother's candy recipes.

Accompanying story; V.P. the opener

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              131 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    September 7, 1990, Friday, FINAL EDITION

V.P. the opener

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 103 words


Vice President Dan Quayle on Sunday will dedicate the Ellis Island National
Museum of Immigration in a ceremony that also includes the swearing- in of 50
new U.S. citizens.

The museum, the result of an eight-year, $ 156 million renovation project,
occupies the main building where 12 million immigrants were processed from 1892
to 1954.
Getting there

The island is a 10-minute ferry ride ($ 6 adults; $ 3 children) from Battery
Park in Manhattan or Liberty State Park in New Jersey.
- Opening: Monday
- Hours: Daily except Dec. 25. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., with extended hours in summer.
- Admission: Free

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Accompanies; A dream of a new life come true; Ellis Island was gateway

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              132 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 10, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

NATIONLINE

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 115 words


Ellis Island museum opens to public today

The Ellis Island National Museum of Immigration in New York Harbor opens today
as a monument to the nation's immigrant ancestry. Nearly half of all living
Americans trace their families to the 12 million immigrants processed at Ellis
Island from its opening in 1892 to its closing in 1954. At dedication ceremonies
Sunday, U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia swore in 49 new citizens. Also
on hand: Johanna Flaherty, 84, who emigrated from Ireland in 1923 because she
''didn't want to wake up and stare a cow in the face every morning.'' The
restored center includes a Wall of Honor with the names of 200,000 immigrants
etched in copper.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Jim Sulley, AP (New York - Johanna Flaherty); PHOTO; b/w,
Mike Albans, AP (New York - Christopher Armour, Vaughn Armour)

CUTLINE: ELLIS OPENING: Johanna Flaherty, 84, cuts ribbon. CUTLINE: PROTECTION:
Christopher Armour, 4, and brother Vaughn, 5, in bullet- resistant caps and
jackets. Christopher's school bag can stop shotgun blast or knife.

TYPE: Nationline

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              133 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 10, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Long lines at Ellis Island

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 61 words


The busiest year at New York's Ellis Island was 1907 when 1 million immigrants
arrived. Other major arrival ports that year:
Honolulu(1)      24,531

Galveston, Texas 9,842
Philadelphia     30,501
Baltimore        66,910
Boston           70,164

(1) - U.S. territory

Source: Immigration Naturalization Service

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  color, Web Bryant, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration Naturalization
Service, Stand alone graphic (Drawing, United States, Immigrants on boat)

TYPE: Snapshot

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              134 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 24, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

The land of the free is home of brave newcomers;
Soviet Jews find a niche in melting pot

BYLINE: Bethany Kandel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 979 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Early Fridays, the lines sometimes go out the door at the White Acacia Russian
gourmet shop in Brighton Beach.

Recently arrived Soviet immigrants are queued up, clamoring to buy telmeni and
ponchek, dumplings and knishes - the foods of their homeland.

Down the street, in the Black Sea Bookstore, Russian-English dictionaries are
snapped up by the hundreds by Soviets eager to learn a new langauge.

''The first thing my children did was buy a Nintendo machine,'' says Leonid
Nusinzon, 41, a Soviet computer programer who arrived six months ago. ''It was
their dream.''

The Soviets are coming in the largest wave of immigrants to the USA since that
of Southeast Asians in the early to middle 1970s, due to the easing of Soviet
emigration restrictions.

Their numbers - 20,000 of the 50,000 to arrive in the past year have stayed in
New York City - are helping revitalize many Brooklyn and Bronx neighborhoods.

But the influx is overwhelming an already crowded housing market and straining
the resources and pocketbooks of resettlement agencies, which are preparing for
the next wave of Soviet refugees due to begin arriving in October.

Four out of five are Jewish. All are leaving behind an anti-Semitic climate in
the Soviet Union.

''The most important thing about America is freedom,'' says Nusinzon. ''To go
wherever you want, to have a place to live wherever you want, to keep our Jewish
tradition and practice our religion. That is more than I could imagine.''

The freedom is most welcome, but the means to it are difficult for many -
finding jobs and housing and learning a new language. Most of all, they must
learn to be American - how to go to the bank, ride a subway, shop.

''They don't know what a sale is. There are no sales in the Soviet Union,'' says
Yelizaveta Yefimov, who arrived in 1979 and now heads a settlement program in
Brooklyn's Bensonhurst neighborhood.

She takes groups of refugees to the bank and the supermarket, explains holidays
such as George Washington's Birthday, Martin Luther King Day and Halloween, and
teaches The Star-Spangled Banner.

She even has to teach them to not fear police. ''In the Soviet Union the police
work against the people. Here they work for the people,'' she says. ''That takes
getting used to.''

Helping them acclimate are hundreds of agencies that are constantly expanding to
keep up with the demand.

''We're bursting at the seams, but we're ready for more,'' says Mark Handelman,
executive vice president of NYANA, the New York Association for New Americans,
the primary resettlement agency for Jewish immigrants.

NYANA, which has handled 20,000 people since last October - up from 5,000 in
1988 - has a $ 57 million budget and 400 on staff. It holds 140 English classes
for 1,200 students.

Handelman predicts New York's Soviet Jewish population of nearly 100,000 will
double in five years if the Soviet Union continues its migration policy.

While the Soviets favor large cities with active Jewish communities, including
Philadelphia, Boston, Los Angeles and Chicago, the largest share settle in New
York.

Now that traditional settling spots for Soviet Jewish immigrants, such as
Brooklyn's Brighton Beach, are full, new immigrants are going to other parts of
the city.

''Prices here are cheaper because we suffer from the reputation of the Bronx,''
says Nathan Kolodney of Bronx House, a Jewish community center in the Pelham
Parkway section of the Bronx. ''But this is one of the last affordable
middle-class areas in the city.''

To cater to this growing population ''of highly educated, cultured people,''
such centers are offering Russian poetry readings, concerts and other such
activities in addition to housing, employment and educational programs.

''Along with food and shelter, what they're hungering for is culture,
intellectual pursuits and Jewish expression,'' says Kolodney.

Yet to offer such services to 300 Soviet families - up from 10 only three years
ago - costs money. ''It's a tremendous financial strain, but we will not turn
away any immigrant who needs our help,'' says Kolodney. Their money comes
largely from philanthropies.

In anticipation of the ''floodgates opening again,'' Bronx House is seeking
grants to hire an employment specialist and for scholarship money for
educational programs.

They're also enlisting the help of recent immigrants to help the soon-to- arrive
newcomers cope with the initial culture shock. ''If you've been here four months
you're an old-timer,'' he says.

As they blend into American society, the immigrants add their own flavor to the
city's ethnic blend and change the faces of neighborhoods.

That's already obvious in Bensonhurst, a largely Italian Brooklyn community
where newsstands now stock Soviet newspapers and signs in the Cyrillic alphabet
are posted on several stores and synagogues.

Last May, emigre Irene Akselrud, 26, and her husband, Mark, opened a deli, named
Ukraina, on 20th Avenue in Bensonhurst. She marvels at the variety of her
neighbors. ''There are Chinese, Italians, Americans, Russians. ''It's very
international,'' says the former Russian schoolteacher.

Even their street represents the mix New York is famous for: Next door to
Ukraina is Caffe Venezia, an Italian restaurant; across the street is Balkan
Foods, a Greek grocery; and catty-corner is the China Queen restaurant.

Many immigrants move to neighborhoods where there's a Soviet presence but not a
majority, because they want to assimilate quickly.

''I come to this country not only to make friends with Russian people,'' says
Stella Chollak. ''It is interesting for us to get to know the way of life of the
local people, to improve our language and to fit in.''

TEXT OF GRAPHIC
Soviets find home in USA
Soviet immigrants to USA
'90          50,000(1)

1 - Estimate
Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, USA TODAY (Drawing, Map of New York); GRAPHIC; b/w, USA TODAY
(Graph); PHOTO; b/w, Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY (New York, Irene, Mark Akselrud)

CUTLINE: GROCERS: Irene and Mark Akselrud in their Russian grocery in the
Bensonhurst neighborhood.

Ribbon Label; IN NEW YORK, A SURGE OF IMMIGRATION; 3

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              135 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 24, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

New immigration policy reduces stress

BYLINE: Steve Marshall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 355 words


A Soviet Jew who wants to emigrate to the USA will probably get here -
eventually.

If not, he or she will wind up in Israel, which this year alone welcomed 100,000
Soviet Jews to bolster its small population against its hostile Arab nations.

About a year ago - faced with an overwhelming tide of Soviet Jews seeking to
enter the USA - officials clamped shut U.S. immigration pipelines from Vienna
and Rome, where crowds of Jews had sought U.S. asylum after arriving from the
Soviet Union.

Under the new policy:

- Jews - and any others seeking to leave the Soviet Union - must apply for an
exit visa.

- If that's granted, they then file for a U.S. entry visa. Officials say the
average wait for permission to come to the USA is 18 months. As in the past,
preference is given to those with family in the USA, to help reunite families.

- If a visa is granted, the immigrants travel directly from their former home to
their new homeland - without the uncertainty of camping in Rome or Vienna for a
permit that may or may not be issued.

''Closing of the (Rome-Vienna) pipeline cuts out a step and creates a situation
where a person doesn't have to live in limbo while they're waiting for
processing,'' says Mark Handelman, executive vice president of NYANA, the New
York Association for New Americans, the primary resettlement agency for Jewish
refugees.

''In the past,'' he says, ''they would have to sit around for months and months
not being able to live normally. That's not terribly healthy for people. It
tends to create a lot of stress and a lot of tension, whereas now people are in
the Soviet Union and ... can continue to live and work.''

The situation also created stress for the government and voluntary agencies that
helped care for the refugees in limbo, Handelman says.

This year, the voluntary agencies that assist refugees will recommend that the
United States grant 145,000 visas, he says. The government, which granted 50,000
visas to Soviets, will probably grant about 130,000 visas.

''There are about 15 million known refugees in the world. Obviously we can't
take in 15 million,'' he says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Ribbon Label; IN NEW YORK, A SURGE OF IMMIGRATION; 3

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              136 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 4, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

CAPITAL LINE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 488 words


THE GULF CRISIS
IN THE GULF: Iraqi forces are executing and torturing the men, women and
children of Kuwait for offenses as minor as possession of photographs of
Kuwait's ousted emir, refugees tell the human rights group Amnesty
International.
- Iraq's President Saddam Hussein toured Kuwait for the first time.
- More than 900,000 foreigners have fled Iraq and Kuwait and 2 million more may
try to leave, Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger said.
- Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu of Japan arrived in Jordan. President Francois
Mitterrand of France visited sailors on a French destroyer.
IN NEW YORK: Oil prices pulled out of a tailspin Wednesday, soaring on reports
of falling oil supplies and rising Middle East tensions. (Story, 1B)

House increases immigrant quota

The House voted 231-192 Wednesday for a bill that would allow 235,000 more
people to immigrate to the USA each year. The measure would ease obstacles to
reunification of families, end barriers against immigration from some northern
European countries and increase the number of highly skilled workers allowed
into the United States. Congressional negotiators now try to reconcile the House
bill and a Senate version, which calls for a 90,000 increase. The White House
has threatened to veto the House version. Currently, annual immigration is
limited to 540,000 people.

GOP REJECTS DUKE: Eight Republican senators endorsed Democratic Sen. J. Bennett
Johnston in Louisiana's open primary and urged voters to reject the ''racist''
appeals of state Rep. David Duke, a former Ku Klux Klan leader, running as a GOP
candidate. A Gannett News Service poll of Louisiana voters shows 53% support
Johnston, 26% Duke, and 8% state Sen. Ben Bagert, who has the Republican Party's
endorsement. Johnston needs more than 50% of the vote Staurday to avoid a
runoff.

OLDER WORKERS: The House gave final congressional approval, by a 406-14 vote, to
a bill to reverse the effects of a 1989 Supreme Court decision that allowed
employers to limit job benefits for older workers. The bill, which already
passed the Senate, now goes to the White House.

PEOPLE WATCH

- The reigning Miss Moscow, Masha Kalinina, who met President Bush Wednesday,
dropped in on Rep. Chris Cox, R-Calif., while visiting Capitol Hill. Kalinina,
whose trip to the USA was arranged by one of Cox's constituents, is the winner
of the inaugural Soviet beauty contest. Cox said: ''She ended up giving me her
phone number and told me she'd be my tour guide next time I'm in Moscow. ...
She's certainly not the old stereotype of Moscow women.''

- In a closed session of the Senate Ethics Committee, Sen. John Glenn, D- Ohio,
became the first of five senators to explain his intervention with banking
officials on behalf of former savings and loan owner Charles Keating. After the
meeting Glenn said: ''I survived. ... There was adequate time to discuss
everything.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Agence France-Presse (Oil war - U.S.  military); PHOTO;
b/w, AP (Masha Kalinina)

CUTLINE: SAY CHEESE: A 164th Armored Task Force soldier turns the tables on
photographer. CUTLINE: KALININA: Miss Moscow winner

TYPE: Capital Line

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              137 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     October 5, 1990, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Victims at home, victims here;
Gangs target immigrants

BYLINE: Tom Squitieri

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 819 words

DATELINE: FALLS CHURCH, Va.


At 17, the Vietnamese boy with the soft, smiling face is a veteran of at least
30 home burglaries - all at the expense of other Vietnamese.

His victims, he says, ''carry real gold, 24-carat gold, or guns.'' Adds the
young man, a burglar turned police informant whose name can't be used: ''It
takes 15 to 20 minutes.''

In the latest twist to centuries old fighting, Vietnamese and other Asian
immigrants are attacking each other for money, revenge and politics on city
streets and in suburbs across the USA.
Brutal gangs force their way into homes; mail threats to businessmen are
increasing; and those suspected of being soft on communists are being
terrorized, sometimes killed.

The problem ''is escalating'' among the USA's almost 1 million Vietnamese, says
Phil Hannum, ex-president of the International Association of Asian Crime
Investigators, but remains hard to gauge since victims often avoid police.

Hannum, an officer with the Fairfax City, Va., police, estimates at least 30
''home invasion'' robberies in northern Virginia this winter. Only seven were
reported.

That rate of reporting is similar in other areas with large Vietnamese
populations, say police.

To understand the problem, Hannum says, ''You got to take your American way of
thinking and throw it out the window.''

Says Nguyen Ngoc Bich, an activist in northern Virginia's tight-
knit Vietnamese community: ''If you are a criminal, you know who you'd want to
go after. A lot of people are scared.''

Most of the victims are older, upper-class Vietnamese who fled to the USA just
after the fall of South Vietnam.

The predators come from new arrivals who fled ''re-education'' and refugee
camps, and are hardened by days in leaky boats and battles with Thai pirates.

The first wave, most with college educations and ties to the USA, became
successful in business, and live on quiet streets and cul-du-sacs. Those who
came later - often less educated and less skilled - have found it more difficult
to adjust and find work.

The two groups converge at places like the Eden Center here in suburban
Washington. It was an old, fading shopping center - dwarfed by new malls -
before the Vietnamese moved in.

Here families eat pho - a steamy, spicy soup dish - and old men drink ca phe den
a strong black coffee with ice.

Gossip is exchanged on sidewalks and grocery stores; teens parade in their
finery, flirt and play cards; the melodic flow of the Vietnamese language
abounds.

But in those same jewelry stores, cafes and barber shops - where straight razors
are used for shaves and eyebrow trimming - people are wary.

Will they be robbed that night? Or terrorized in their homes?

''We've had no trouble since we opened,'' says Mai Lam, 16, whose family owns
Tan Tien Jewerly. ''We feel safe in here, in the store.'' Her family works
behind two sets of doors where entry and exit is controlled by electronic
buzzers.

''Sometimes this is too good a place because the criminals show up,''says John
Nguyen, 40, who runs Eden Center.

Nguyen, who fled Saigon two days before it fell to the communists, says
mysterious attacks are nothing new for a people used to years of war: ''We're
experienced where something happens and nobody knows who did it or why.''

Police watch places like the Eden Center for out-of-state-license plates,
sometimes a tip-off to roving thieves.

Some reasons for Vietnamese-on-Vietnamese crime:

- Economic: ''If you hit an American home, they have receipts and they don't
have gold and their money is in the bank,'' says the teen-age police informant.

- Political: Vietnamese perceived as not strongly anti-communists are targeted
for harassment and death by those still fighting the Hanoi government.

Latest example: Triet Le, columnist for Tien Phong, a prominent Vietnamese
magazine, and his wife were gunned down at their Fairfax County home Sept. 22.

The murders came just 10 months after a page designer for the magazine was shot
to death.

- Ethnic: Many Vietnamese - distrustful of authority in their homeland - shun
police.

''To go outside the community, to call the police, is the last resort. It's a
loss of honor, a loss of control in the context of their society,'' says Robert
Manning, who teaches race and ethnic relations at nearby American University.

He says many of the criminals are former refugees dazzled by ''the vast amounts
of wealth, the opulent lifestyle'' they see here.

''They prey on each other in (refugee) camps and the bond takes place there,''
Hannum says. ''One comes to America and the others will follow ... into the
unlawful life.''

Lt. John Woods of the Garden Grove, Calif., police says it took 10 years to win
cooperation from the 40,000 Vietnamese community, helping to solve some cases.

Says Woods: ''If you can get ... Vietnamese to start trusting our banks and
putting things in safe depost boxes, it (crime) would definitely be reduced.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Timothy A. Murphy (Vietnamese community, Nguyen Ngoc Bich);
PHOTO; b/w, Yvonne Soy, USA TODAY (Vietnamese community, Nguyen Ngoc Bich)

CUTLINE: RAISING AWARENESS: Nguyen Ngoc Bich, an activist in northern Virginia's
Vietnamese community, leads a discussion on crime problems. CUTLINE: NGUYEN:
Shopping center owner

Ribbon Label; CRIME IN THE ASIAN COMMUNITY; 2

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              138 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 24, 1990, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Legal wrangle threatens Probert's NHL career

BYLINE: Kevin Allen

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 168 words


The Detroit Red Wings' Bob Probert, with a reputation as one of the National
Hockey League's toughest competitors, is in a fight to save his career.

U.S. District Judge Horace Gilmore delayed until Thursday a ruling on whether
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service can jail him while he appeals
his deportation.

Probert was convicted of coming from Canada into the USA in March 1989 with a
half-ounce of cocaine. The deportation order, though, is based on alcohol abuse.

Attorney Harold Fried is challenging the constitutionality of imprisoning
someone appealing deportation.

''I believe in Probert,'' Fried said. ''I saw what he was before, and I see what
he is now.''

Probert has visited schools and answered the phone for drug hot lines, not part
of his probation. He buys 10 tickets each game for underprivileged kids.

''Bob Probert has done everything and anything the law has asked,'' Red Wings
general manager and coach Bryan Murray said. ''I don't know what else he can
do.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              139 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 26, 1990, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Jamaican acquitted of killing policeman

BYLINE: John Larrabee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 323 words


Jamaican immigrant Albert Lewin burst into tears Thursday after being acquitted
in the shooting death of Boston police detective Sherman Griffiths in a 1988
drug raid.

''I'm feeling great right now,'' said Lewin, 34.

After 2 1/2 years in jail awaiting trial, he now faces deportation to Jamaica as
an illegal immigrant. He says he wants to be home with his two young children,
whom he has not seen in years.

Griffiths, 36, was shot in the head by an unseen gunman while smashing open the
door of an apartment where police believed drugs were sold.

Revelations of police perjury and misconduct marred the case and sullied the
image of Boston police and prosecutors.

''It was obvious to the jury there was no credible evidence,'' said defense
lawyer Max Stern.

The only physical evidence linking Lewin to the murder weapon was a fingerprint
on the gun. Lewin was arrested after he was found in an apartment downstairs
from where the raid occurred.

Griffiths' partner, Detective Carlos Luna, admitted in testimony that a search
warrant for the apartment was based on a fictitious informant. He also said
prosecutor Francis O'Meara prodded him to lie.

Both Luna and his supervisor, Sgt. Hugo Amate, face perjury charges and have
been suspended.

Prosecutor Thomas Mundy called Luna ''a liar'' during cross-examination. ''The
integrity of this office has not been impugned in any way,'' Mundy said after
the trial.

Jurors deliberated three hours and 40 minutes over two days before deciding the
verdict of not guilty. The case was tried in Greenfield, 100 miles from Boston,
because of pretrial publicity.

Prosecutors charged that Lewin entered the country illegally and worked for a
Jamaican drug ring in Boston's Dorchester neighborhood. But his lawyer has
described Lewin as a devout Seventh-day Adventist who wants to return to his
family in Jamaica. He'd been in the USA just a few months when the shooting
occurred.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Alan Solomon, AP

CUTLINE: ACQUITTED: Albert Lewin is flanked by his attorney, Max Stern, and
Stern's assistant, Patricia Garin, after his acquittal.

TYPE: Newsmakers

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              140 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 29, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Angry voices on newcomers to USA;
New doors open for immigrants

BYLINE: Sharen Shaw Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 360 words


The USA will admit 40% more immigrants in the future - especially those with
skills and wealth, but also some once barred for political or medical reasons.

Congressional passage this weekend represented the first thorough U.S.
immigration law revision in 66 years; President Bush strongly backs the measure.

The law, which takes effect in 1992, would:

- Give the first 465,000 visas each year to those with family in the USA,
including 220,000 immediate relatives of U.S. citizens.

- Earmark 40,000 visas for people from Italy, Poland, Ireland and other
traditional immigrant sources virtually shut out for 20 years, while Asians and
Latin Americans got priority.

- Let an extra 140,000 workers enter yearly, including 10,000 who could qualify
for special ''investor'' visas by promising to create at least 10 jobs once
here. Critics in Congress said the provision opens the door too widely to the
wealthy.

- Relax Cold War political restrictions, many born in the 1950s anti- communist
era. The secretary of State, however, still can bar individuals on political
grounds.

- Let Health Secretary Louis Sullivan remove AIDS and other diseases as reasons
for denying entry. In the past, Sullivan has said repeatedly there's no reason
to exclude those with AIDS.

- Allow 10,000 political asylums a year - twice the level now.

- Boost immigration from Hong Kong to 10,000 a year, 27,000 after 1994. Hong
Kong will pass from British to Chinese control in 1997.

- Grant amnesty to 30,000 Irish living illegally in the USA.

TEXT OF GRAPHIC
Angry voices on newcomers to USA
How immigration limits change
Limit on number of immigrants legally entering the United States each year:
Currently         490,000
1991-1994         645,000
1995-thereafter   675,000

We're allowing 10,000 people to come in because they're millionaires. ... A vote
for this is a vote for sale of American citizenship to highest bidder.

- Rep. John Bryant, D-Texas

Though imperfect, this bill is a vast improvement. ... (it) will help create
jobs in areas that are thirsty for new
investment.

- Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, Keith Carter, USA TODAY; PHOTO; b/w, Bob Thomas, UPI; PHOTO; b/w,
Tim Dillon, USA TODAY

Ribbon Label; 101ST CONGRESS ENDS MARATHON RUN

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              141 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 29, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Congress' hits, misses

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 845 words


Legislation
CLEAN AIR: The first update of clean-air laws in 13 years forces deep cuts in
emissions that make smog, acid rain and toxic hazards or deplete the ozone. The
law affects automobiles and most industries, from utilities to dry cleaners.
Average car cost may rise $ 125 to $ 600. (Business faces costs, 1B)

MILITARY: Cuts $ 20 billion from spending and slashes troop strength by up to
100,000 in the biggest one-year reduction since Vietnam. Biggest cuts: ''star
wars'' defense system, Stealth bomber.

IMMIGRATION: Legal immigration increases 40% to about 700,000 a year, including
more relatives of legalized immigrants and more skilled workers from Europe. The
compromise bill is the first overhaul of visa regulations since 1965.

CHILD CARE: The maximum tax credit poor families can get for child care nearly
doubles to about $ 1,700 by 1994. States will get grants for day-care centers or
subsidies to low-income families. It's the first child care measure since
President Nixon's veto in 1972.

THE DISABLED: Public places, new buildings and telephone services must be made
usable by the disabled under what some see as the most important civil- rights
measure since 1964.

FOREIGN AID: Spends $ 15 billion, forgives Egypt's $ 6.7 billion military debt
and withholds half of $ 85 million in military aid from El Salvador unless
rebels fighting the U.S.-backed government conclude peace talks.

HEAD-START: Biggest expansion since program began in '60s will extend services
to all disadvantaged preschoolers by 1994.

CRIME: Bush wanted to expand the death penalty and ease rules for seizing
evidence, but got only a watered-down version. A controversial ban on assault
rifles was dropped from the final bill. Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., said the bill
left the House as ''Arnold Schwarzenegger, and came back from the Senate as
Woody Allen.''

MEDICARE: Premiums will rise to $ 46.50 a month over five years, from $ 28.60.
Deductible rises to $ 100 from $ 75 in 1991. Maximum charges for which doctors
and hospitals can be reimbursed cut sharply.

THE ARTS: After 18 months of rancorous feuding, restrictions are dropped on what
art can be federally funded. (Reaction, 1D)

FARM: The amount of crop land eligible for subsidies is cut, but farmers get
more freedom to look for profit-making crops. Expands safeguards for wetlands
and water sources.

HOUSING: The first major change in the federal housing program in 10 years gives
states and localities more say in their areas under a two-year, $ 38.5- billion
new program. Legislation also adds 360,000 new housing units, incorporates
Bush's home-ownership plan and shores up the federal home loan insurance
program.

OFFSHORE RIGS: Bans for a tenth year oil and gas drilling off much of the
nation's coasts. No wells in the Pacific Northwest or within 50 miles of shore
from Maine to Maryland.

AIDS: Grants $ 221 million to cities, states hardest hit by the disease.

HATE CRIMES: The FBI must add ''hate crimes'' against homosexual, racial, ethnic
and religious minorities to its Uniform Crime Report. The new statistics will be
kept after Jan. 1.

FLAG DESECRATION: Democrats defeated a constitutional amendment to ban flag
burning, upholding a Supreme Court ruling that the action is protected free
speech. Bush pushed for the amendment.

Vetoed or left undone:

CIVIL RIGHTS: Congress voted to overturn six Supreme Court rulings that make it
tougher to prove hiring and promotion discrimination. But Bush vetoed it, saying
the new law would lead to hiring quotas. The Senate failed to override by one
vote.

FAMILY LEAVE: Congress voted to guarantee workers six weeks' unpaid leave for
childbirth or family medical emergencies, but couldn't override Bush's veto.

CAMPAIGN FINANCE: Despite much talk, proposals to revise campaign finances died
when Republicans refused to accept Democrats' demand to limit spending by
candidates. The GOP contended such limits would hurt challengers - mostly
Republicans.

Scandals
DAVID DURENBERGER: Sen. David Durenberger, R-Minn., was condemned by his peers
for money deals, including evading Senate limits on $ 100,000 in speaking fees.
He faces re-election in 1994.

BARNEY FRANK: Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., acknowledged he hired a male
prostitute for sex. He was reprimanded for using his congressional privileges to
fix the man's traffic tickets. Frank is favored to win re-election.

DONALD LUKENS: Rep. Donald ''Buz'' Lukens, R-Ohio, resigned last week after a
Capitol elevator operator accused him of fondling her. He earlier lost a GOP
primary after a 1989 Ohio conviction on moral charges for having sex with a
16-year-old girl.

KEATING FIVE: The Senate ethics panel won't act until after the election on
charges that Alan Cranston, D-Calif., Dennis DeConcini, D-Ariz., Donald Riegle,
D-Mich., John McCain, R-Ariz., and John Glenn, D-Ohio, pressured regulators to
help Charles Keating Jr.'s failing savings and loans operation. Keatings made
major contributions to all five.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Ribbon Label; 101ST CONGRESS ENDS MARATHON RUN; 4

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              142 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 30, 1990, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

More coming to the USA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 62 words


Starting in 1992, the number of immigrants allowed into the USA annually will
increase to 645,000. Number of immigrants by decade:
Decade ended     Immigrants (millions)
1910              8.8
1940               .5
1989(1)           5.8

1 - Last year available

Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  color, Rod Little, USA TODAY, Source: U.S.  Immigration and
Naturalization Service, Stand alone graphic

TYPE: Snapshot

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              143 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 1, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

OPENING DOOR TO HOPE;
Immigrants 'waiting for this a long time';
New face of U.S. to be more global

BYLINE: Morris S. Thompson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1128 words


In Boston's Kinvara Pub, as darts fly and real Irishmen swig Guinness ale,
County Galway native Bartholomew Cawley wonders whether his days as an ''illegal
immigrant'' may be ending.

''It will be a light in the background for a lot of us,'' a hopeful Cawley says.
''But I'll take it as it comes. If things don't work out soon, I'm off to
Australia.''

In San Francisco's Chinese Chamber of Commerce, Hong Kong native Rose Pak dreams
of welcoming friends left in 1967. ''I've seen families separated for decades,
waiting to rejoin each other some day,'' she says. ''This may be the chance they
were waiting for.''

From coast to coast and around the world, Cawley, Pak and others have big hopes
after the first major overhaul of U.S. immigration law in a quarter century.
Congress passed the bill just before adjourning; the White House says President
Bush may sign it this week.

The bottom line: Immigrant visas will jump to 700,000 a year starting next Oct.
1 - nearly one-third more than in 1988-89. Job-based visas will nearly triple;
amnesty will be offered to illegal Irish, Asian, Latin Americans and others
already here; decades-old Cold War restrictions will go the way of the Berlin
Wall.

And the gates will be reopened for workers from the ancestral homes of millions
of white Americans. ''People are really excited about these changes,'' says
Chicago's Peter Walter, 23, a film student from Poland. ''They've been waiting
and hoping for this for a long time.''

The law, once criticized as the ''white man's immigration bill'' for its efforts
on behalf of Europeans, is now drawing near-universal praise as the dawn of a
new and fairer era in who gets to come live in the USA.

Families from Mexico to Manila and from Bombay to Bimini will be reunited. The
U.S. will look even more like the world as Kenyans and Cambodians come, and as
the Statue of Liberty again holds out its torch toward Europe.

''For the first time, those who come to the United States will come from all of
the world and not just a few countries,'' says Rep. Bruce Morrison, D- Conn., a
sponsor of the bill that drew support even from groups wanting tight limits on
newcomers.

Under the nation's third major change this century in who gets immigrant visas:

- Recent arrivals from Latin America, Asia and the Caribbean can keep bringing
relatives in and get them here faster. ''Waiting periods for permanent residents
to bring in their spouses and children could shorten from 10 years to two or
three,'' says Antonia Hernandez, president of the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Educational Fund.

- Universities will find it easier to hire top-notch foreign scholars, and
businesses can get more workers with skills few current residents have.

- Significant if modest numbers of ordinary black Africans will be able to come
willingly to live here, starting in 1994.

- McCarthy-era rules sometimes used to bar homosexual or leftist visitors go the
way of all flesh. Instead, the attorney general is instructed that
''subversion'' means criminal activity, not sexual orientation or political
beliefs.

The old standards were used to bar lecture tours by the likes of leftist
novelists Graham Greene and Gabriel Garcia Marquez, a Nobel laureate in
literature.

- Millionaire investors get 10,000 visas a year, but so do unskilled workers. In
the early years of the law, the standards favor Europeans; later, Africans and
Asians.

The new law for the most part sets standards and limits for immigrants, distinct
from refugees fleeing individual persecution, who may be given so- called
temporary protective status. The law also doesn't deal with the tens of
thousands in quest of a better life who sneak into the country illegally every
year, mostly overland from poor Latin American nations.

Groups that want fewer immigrants won provisions for increased security along
U.S. borders and the first overall cap on how many relatives of citizens and
legal residents can enter.

To Daniel Stein, executive director of the pro-limits Federation for American
Immigration Reform, the bill is a compromise: ''The family-chain process is
still out of control. For every engineer, you still get Uncle Harry and Aunt
Josephine.''

The AFL-CIO endorsed provisions requiring employers to prove that U.S. residents
aren't available to do jobs they want to offer to foreigners. But labor leaders
say they regret that money to train U.S. workers was cut from the legislation.

''If they are going to seek workers from abroad, it is a matter of good public
policy to require them to invest in the training of U.S. workers,'' says Jane
O'Grady, a Washington, D.C., lobbyist for the umbrella union group.

The first time immigration was reformed, in 1924, Congress imposed country-
by-country quotas that favored Europeans. Older, piecemeal laws concentrated on
where immigrants couldn't come from, especially non-white countries.

The country quotas were scrapped in 1965 in favor of reuniting the families of
recent immigrants. One result was to shut off most legal immigration from
Europe, because most theoretically eligible relatives of citizens of European
descent were either already here or dead.

To restore some balance, a lottery will give 40,000 visas a year for the next
three years to citizens of 35 mostly European countries who have a U.S. job
offer.

Of those, 16,000 a year will be from Ireland, where half the population is under
age 25 and the economy is sour. One pro-Irish lobby figures the lion's share of
the visas will go to 100,000 undocumented Irish already in the USA.

''I was in London before I came here, and I wouldn't go back there in a
coffin,'' says Mick Rune, 29, a plasterer who moved to Boston in 1987 without a
visa and got work immediately.

For illegal immigrants already in the U.S., the feeling of relief is widespread.
Says Galway native Martin Flaherty, 36, an electrical engineer in Boston:
''Being illegal is like putting your life on hold. You can't do a lot of things
- can't invest, can't save, can't even report an accident.''

Flaherty, who now has a visa, jokes wryly about ''the St. Paddy's Day flag
wavers,'' the second- and third-generation Irish-Americans in neighborhoods like
South Boston who ''think they're more Irish than the Irish.'' He says he'll
raise his children as Americans.

''When we come to this country, we adopt it as our own,'' he says. ''We do
criticize, because that's the Irish nature. But you can't burn the American flag
in front of an Irish guy.''

 Contributing: John Larrabee in Boston, Kevin Johnson in Chicago, Maria
Goodavage in San Francisco

TEXT OF GRAPHIC
European immigration
1 - Latest figure available
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service
COMPLETE TEXT NOT AVAILABLE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  color, USA TODAY; PHOTO; color, Jann Van Horne

CUTLINE: U.S. VISA VITAL: Ireland native Martin Flaherty with his U.S. wife,
Teresa. He says of his former life as an illegal alien: 'You can't do a lot -
you can't even report an accident.'

TYPE: Cover Story

Accompanying story; How immigration law works

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              144 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 16, 1990, Friday, FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 92 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Emergency plan was launched to speed up processing of 10,000 work permit
applications at INS office. Plan increases overtime, adds staff, uses
easier-to-make work authorization cards to handle flood of Nicaraguan refugees.
... TALLAHASSEE - Monitoring of abused, neglected children will increase to
guard against violence resulting from family tensions during holidays, state
officials said. ... State could face $ 150 million more in budget cuts by June,
state budget director said. Lagging tax revenues forced $ 262 million in cuts
last month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              145 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

               November 20, 1990, Tuesday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

WORLD LINE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 118 words


Israel: No plans to give up territories

Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir has called for keeping all of the land
from the Mediterranean Sea to the Jordan River ''for future generations and for
the mass immigration'' of Soviet Jews. At least 120,000 Soviet Jews have arrived
this year, and a million are expected by the end of 1992. The United States has
called for a land-for-peace settlement in the Israeli- occupied West Bank and
Gaza Strip and has insisted on guarantees that U.S.- backed loans for Soviet
immigrants not be used in the occupied lands or Arab east Jerusalem. Shamir said
keeping the territory was not related to Soviet- Jewish immigration, but ''a
vital security necessity.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, AP

CUTLINE: SHAMIR: Israel will keep occupied lands

TYPE: World line

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              146 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 26, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Asians build new lives as immigrants

BYLINE: William Dunn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1015 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif.


In this sprawling city, where countless strip shopping centers line busy
streets, in a blur of franchised blandness, the Lion Plaza is unique.

Patrons buy black nuts and lemon grass, squab and intestines at the grocery.
There are embroidered satin dresses at a clothing store. A restaurant lists
dozens of Vietnamese soups. And few of the signs for the 65 stores are in
English.

The plaza, whose pink stucco reflects San Jose's Hispanic heritage, these days
caters primarily to Asians - the nation's fastest-growing minority group. Many
achieve inspiring successes, but discrimination, racial tension and poverty
still haunt others.

Asians are changing the nation's economy, politics, culture, even its food. Who
are they?

Upcoming 1990 Census results will show:

- The USA's Asian population has grown 80% since 1980, to 7 million, with the
greatest number living in California.

While Hispanics will be the nation's largest minority group in the next century,
followed by blacks, Asians' growth has been most explosive: They accounted for
42% of immigrants in the 1980s, and some experts say Asians could be 10% of the
population by 2080.

- Asians are richer - and poorer. Median household income is highest of any
group, including whites, at $ 36,100 in 1989, compared with $ 28,910 nationally.
But Asians also have higher poverty rates than whites: 14% are poor; 10% of
whites are.

- Asian immigrants are no longer primarily from China and Japan. The last 20
years has seen an influx of immigration from Southeast Asia. While early
immigrants from those countries tended to be well-educated and middle-class, the
newest immigrants, like Vietnam's boat people, often are peasants.

- Asians are the best educated group in the USA - about 40% are college
graduates, compared with less than 25% of whites. And though Asians make up just
3% of the U.S. population, 19.6% of the Harvard Class of 1994 is Asian.

Says economist Louis Winnick, author of the New People in Old Neighborhoods:
''Their impact will be far greater than their numbers.''

 In many places, it already is.

In San Jose, Vietnamese people operated 3% of the businesses by 1987.

In New York City, where the garment industry had all but disappeared, there are
now 500 clothes-making shops run mostly by Chinese.

Indians operate more than 10% of the motels in the USA.

Even in unlikely spots such as Reno and Tulsa, Koreans run hundreds of small
stores.

''Our whole family works here. Every department, we have our people,'' says
Diana Tran, 28, of her family's Lion Plaza grocery in San Jose. Vietnamese boat
people a decade ago, Diana's parents opened the market in 1986. Their second
market opens this month.

Phung Van Le, a Tokyo-educated Vietnamese who manages a San Jose bank catering
to Chinese and Vietnamese, has started four restaurants in five years.

''We know this - if you work hard, you will be a success,'' says Le, 43.

''All the family works together - not as individuals,'' says restaurant hostess
Sa Dang, Le's wife. ''We save money, don't spend, because we have a goal.''

Their goal is to see their 9-year-old daughter Thu, a straight-A student,
succeed. ''She wants to be a doctor,'' says her mother.

For Asians without the credit to go to a bank like Le's, there's an ancient
practice - kye in Korean, hui in Vietnamese, tanomoshi in Japanese:

A dozen friends organize a loan society and each periodically contributes. Money
can be borrowed at low interest. When it is repaid, another can take out a loan,
and use it to secure a bank loan.

While that practice has given many a new start, it has also brought some old
resentments to the surface.

Asian immigrants were reviled as the ''yellow peril'' a century ago. But in the
last decade, they've been labeled the ''model minority'' - a compliment that
makes many Asians uneasy.

''I don't particularly agree with the model minority myth,'' says San Jose
social worker Thomas Izu, a third generation Japanese-American. ''It's unfair to
generalize that all Asian Americans are well off and there are no problems.''

The myth also can antagonize others, who complain that Asians lower wage rates
by working for less and, because of large families, are hard to compete against.
Those complaints have sometimes lead to confrontation:

- White fishermen in California and Texas have clashed with Vietnamese
competitors.

- Blacks in New York and Washington, D.C., have demonstrated against Korean
grocers.

- A gunman with a hatred of Asians killed five Southeast Asian refugee children
and wounded others in 1989 at a Stockton, Calif., elementary school.

''We've seen a continuing increase of anti-Asian sentiment,'' says Allan Seid,
of the Asian Pacific American Coalition/USA. ''It seems to be tied in with the
state of the economy.''

Even in the corporate world, many Asian Americans complain of the ''glass
ceiling,'' says Chinese-American Ray Lou, dean at San Jose State University.

Lou calls Asian American executives ''20th century coolies'' whose bosses view
them as terrific technocrats, but somehow unsuited to top positions.

Economic issues are important but as much of a concern to many immigrants is
that their children and grandchildren may become too Americanized, losing their
heritage and discipline.

San Jose's Phung Van Le's feelings are typical. ''We don't expect her to be
completely Vietnamese,'' he says of his daughter, who was born in the USA. ''But
we don't want her to be 100% American. ... We expect her to get higher education
and don't go too far to the Western society - so many freedoms.''

Others don't think that will happen.

Sociologist Harry Kitano, co-author of Asian Americans: Emerging Minorities, a
Japanese-American who was interned during World War II is one. ''Asians will
always look Asian. That will force many ... to retain some of the old ways.''

TEXT OF GRAPHIC
Asians in the USA
Asian Americans in the USA population:
1900       .3%
1990(1)     3.0%
2080(2)    10.0%

1 - Estimate
2 - Projection
Source: Population Bulletin; Census Bureau

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  color, USA TODAY, Source: Population Bulletin; Census Bureau; PHOTO;
color, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY

CUTLINE: ENTERPRISE: Diana Tran stocks shelves in family's market. Her parents
came from Vietnam 10 years ago.

TYPE: Cover Story

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              147 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 30, 1990, Friday, FINAL EDITION

CAPITAL LINE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 430 words


THE GULF CRISIS
AT THE UNITED NATIONS: The world stood shoulder-to-shoulder against Iraq's
Saddam Hussein, giving him until Jan. 15 - ''one final opportunity'' - to
withdraw from Kuwait.  (Story, 1A)
- The U.N. Security Council resolution against Iraq doesn't necessarily mean
war, diplomats say.
IN THE GULF: Iraq might be able to build one crude nuclear bomb in a year,
experts say.  (10A)
- The U.S.-led gulf alliance may soon total 550,000.
IN THE USA: U.S. lawmakers fear a special congressional session would give
Saddam mixed message.
- U.N. deadline need not mean war.  (Debate, 14A)
- Economic sanctions can cut Iraq's gross national product by 48% within two
years and force a withdrawal from Kuwait, says one economic analysis.

Law opens doors to 400,000 immigrants

President Bush signed the first major immigration law rewrite in a quarter-
century Thursday, increasing by 400,000 the immigrants to be accepted over the
next three years. The law also opens the door to people with special skills or
wealth and eases restrictions on visitors once barred for having views
unacceptable to the government.

SHADOWLAND: President Bush expressed ''deep disappointment'' Thursday as he
signed a crime bill he said was a shadow of his own 1989 proposal. Congress
deleted Bush's plans for a death penalty for crimes including mail bombing,
terrorist murder and assassination of federal officers.

PEOPLE WATCH
- Ex-president Ronald Reagan appeared to take part in top aides' efforts to
cover up White House Iran-contra involvement, writes ex-senator John Tower, head
of the investigation into the scandal. In excerpts from his memoirs The Dallas
Times Herald published Thursday, Tower said he was shocked when Reagan - relying
on a script aides wrote - contradicted an earlier statement and denied the White
House gave advance OK for a 1985 shipment of missiles to Iran.

- Bernie Sanders, Vermont Socialist who won a House seat Nov. 6, appears headed
for defeat Monday when he asks to join the House Democratic Caucus. Reason:
mounting opposition from conservative and moderate Democrats.
- Diario Popular, a sensationalist Buenos Aires tabloid, reported Thursday
police uncovered a plot to kill President Bush when he visits next week. Said
Argentine official Alberto Duran: ''There is no evidence of a plan against the
life of Mr. Bush.''

WASHINGTON TODAY
- PRESIDENT BUSH: Meets with John Haglelgam, Federated States of Micronesia
president.
- VICE PRESIDENT QUAYLE: Meets with Bush. Attends lunch with GOP freshmen
lawmakers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w (Map, Mideast); PHOTO; b/w, UPI

CUTLINE: TOWER: Says Reagan part of cover-up

TYPE: Capital Line

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              148 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 10, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Ellis Island: Gateway to freedom flourishes

BYLINE: Bethany Kandel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 498 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Katherine Syarto stands on the deck of a boat, the wind in her hair, fingering
her gold-flower earrings, remembering another windy boat ride, another pair of
earrings and a lifetime ago.

''A lot of memories came flooding back today,'' says Syarto, 85, who arrived at
Ellis Island at the age of 15 in 1920. ''I lost my earrings on that boat. Today
I pulled on my ear and I remembered.''

Syarto is among about 400,000 people - immigrants, their descendants, tourists
and the curious - who've flocked to Ellis Island in droves since it reopened
Sept. 10 after an eight-year, $ 156 million restoration.

Between 1892 and 1954 about 12 million people passed through Ellis Island, once
the nation's top immigration-processing facility. Sunday 101 descendants of
immigrants, slaves and native Americans - including singer Melba Moore, Telly
Savalas and Danny Thomas - were awarded the 1990 Ellis Island Medals of Honor.

Meanwhile, the lines to visit the historic island continue to grow. Interest is
so high that a second American Immigrant Wall of Honor is planned to accommodate
all the names people have paid to inscribe on its copper panels.

''The National Park Service is projecting 1.5 million visitors at Ellis Island
for the first 12 months,'' says spokesman Manny Strumpf. ''At this rate, we're
already way ahead.''

As the weather turns cold, the numbers naturally drop off, he says. But so far
keen interest in the restored landmark, plus mild weather, have caused a boom.

For many visitors the trip is a journey back through time.

Lottie Robins, 76, of Miami walked through the Great Hall listening to echoes of
the past. ''This is very heart rending,'' says Robins, whose mother came through
Ellis from Austria in 1900.

''She was 17 years old and frightened to death,'' Robins says. ''I'm reliving
her experience and walking in her footsteps. I'll be back with my children to
show them where we came from.''

Jack Miller, 77, and his son Jeff, 38, chose a trip to Ellis as a family
excursion. ''Of all the things we could have done in New York we thought this
was nice to do together,'' says Jeff, an IRS worker from Ocean, N.J., whose
great grandfather came from Russia through Ellis in 1906.

''This has given me a new incentive to follow my family tree. We are a close
family, but we've all spread out across the country and it makes you think about
that.''

''I am an immigrant,'' says visitor Bomsi Billimoria, 27, who was born in India.
''But I came by plane and I want to see how they came by boat.''

''To me the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island symbolize freedom and the rights
which are granted to all Americans,'' says Dirk de Vos, 22, a South African
student.

''I came to see the freedom which is so absent in South Africa,'' says de Vos.

Antonio Dela Cruz, 65, a retired historian, is visiting from the Philippines.
''I used to teach the history of immigration, so I'm here to learn,'' he says.
''Ellis Island symbolizes freedom all around the world.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Mike Albans, AP (2)

CUTLINE: PEERING INTO THE PAST: From left, Brenda Billimoria, Encarnacion Dela
Cruz, Antonio Dela Cruz and Bomsi Billimoria visit the Ellis Island Museum.
CUTLINE: BACK AGAIN: Philip Mastroianni, 91, who came through Ellis Island in
1915 from Italy, returns to the island with his son John.

Accompanying story; 101 receive medals of honor

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              149 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 17, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

'Phantom banks' probed;
Immigrants are often their prey

BYLINE: Carol J. Castaneda

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 647 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Outside the brick storefront that many Salvadorans thought was a bank, Felipe de
Jesus Velasquez clutches all that remains of his ties with the bankrupt business
- a passbook recording a lifetime of savings that he may never see again.

''I'm waiting for my money,'' said Velasquez, who had put $ 1,750 in Latin
Investment Corp. For Velasquez, a janitor making $ 140 a week, it was an
enormous sum.

Now, for him and 3,000 other Central American immigrants, the money may be gone.
Latin Investment, which had offered banklike services to immigrants who thought
it was a bank, is now under investigation by the Securities and Exchange
Commission after having closed with $ 13 million of its investors' money.

Called ''phantom banks,'' ''shell banks'' or ''counterfeit banks'' by
investigators, companies like Latin Investment operate across the USA, often
leaving customers of the uninsured institutions with nothing more than a deposit
receipt when they shut their doors.

And like Latin Investment, many of the customers are immigrants - legal and
illegal - attracted to the storefronts by their Spanish-speaking clerks and the
ability to open accounts without a Social Security number.

''They prey on the ignorant,'' said John Shockey, a U.S. Treasury official who
in the last decade has investigated ''over 500'' of the psuedo-banks in Oregon,
California, Nevada, Arizona, New York, Utah, Virginia and Washington.

In general, Shockey said, customers ''take huge and almost 100% losses because
the (owner) doesn't have any money to give back.''

Some of the investigations:

- Florida officials are looking into 15 businesses for possible illegal banking.

- In Texas, a phony savings and loan was caught operating out of a food store,
which catered to mostly immigrants.

- In Virginia, Express Bank Ltd. of Arlington closed this year.

''It wasn't a bank,'' said Sid Bailey, the Virginia commissioner of financial
institutions. ''We told the principal that he was in violation of the law, but
he said he would simply relocate and go to the District of Columbia.''

That's one of the problems. While most states have the power to shut down an
entity that represents itself as a bank, it's unclear ''whether the District (of
Columbia) has that power,'' said Bob Serino, a U.S. Treasury official.

In the past three weeks, two phantom banks in Washington have suddenly been
closed by their owners.

Latin Investment was closed Nov. 29 by president Fernando Leonzo. Leonzo,
through a lawyer, would not comment.

''I think they suffered a tragic loss and we're going to do whatever we can to
recover as much of their money as possible,'' said Brian Leitch, whose firm,
Arnold & Porter, volunteered to represent customers.

The Woodrow Wilson Center, a social service agency, also is trying to help.

''These people don't go to restaurants to eat. They don't go to movies. All they
do is save, save, save,'' said Adolfo Torres, center manager. ''Most of them had
been working day and night so they could go back to their country ... to have a
better life.''

Velasquez decided to put his money in Latin Investment because he had known
Leonzo as a child in El Salvador.

''I trusted him very much,'' said Velasquez. ''I never thought this would
happen.''

Velasquez had planned to take the $ 1,750 he saved and visit relatives in El
Salvador this Christmas. He also hoped, during his planned four-month trip, to
see his prized possessions - his animals. He proudly carries pictures of his
dairy cows and a horse in his wallet.

The other bank to close here: Casa Latinoamericano de Inversiones, or Latin
American House of Investments.

Juana Cruz de Hernandez had $ 1,500 deposited. Last week, she stood three hours
in the morning chill with her two young children, hoping for the storefront bank
to open.

''I'm scared,'' she said. ''I don't have any money for anything.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY

CUTLINE: LEFT EMPTY-HANDED: Felipe de Jesus Velasquez wanted to use his $ 1,750
savings to visit relatives in El Salvador for Christmas.

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              150 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 27, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Arrivals represent new political force

BYLINE: Marilyn Greene

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 447 words


Israel's heated, liberal-conservative tug of war could be resolved by new
citizens who don't even have addresses yet.

The Soviet Union's relaxed exit rules have unleashed a flood of immigration to
Israel. The tide is eventually expected, by next spring, to bring in up to 1
million people, enough potential voters to change the course of Israeli
politics.

Whether that will happen is ''a crystal ball question,'' says Jerry Strober of
the Council on Soviet Jewry in New York.

''The challenge to Israel is simply staggering, regardless of the party in
power,'' says the American Jewish Committee's David Harris.

''You'll have several hundred thousand new voters,'' says Strober, but ''nobody
really knows where these people are going. There have been no polls to indicate
where they might go politically.''

The immigration is ''obviously going to make a big change,'' says Mark Talisman,
Washington director for the Council of Jewish Federations. ''One thing is for
sure: These folks coming over love freedom in the deepest sense. They love to
vote, they love to attend political rallies and they love their politicians to
keep their promises. All the major parties are courting them.''

Wooing the Soviet Jews are the governing Likud Party - conservatives headed by
Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir - and the liberal Labor Party.

Capturing the emigres' affection is critical to both: The Likud Party won the
last election by trading concessions to small fundamentalist parties for their
support in a ruling coalition.

That victory ended a six-year power-sharing arrangement that brought political
inertia to the country.

Compounding the parties' task: the difficulty of painting a demographic picture
of the new wave, says James Millar, director of George Washington University's
Institute for Sino-Soviet Studies.

The new emigres are less inspired by religion than by economic concerns, says
Millar. ''Despite that, they are not liberal,'' he says. ''We're talking about
people who don't want to repeat the socialist experience.''

David Clayman, director of the American Jewish Congress' Jerusalem office, says
the emigres' political leanings will depend largely on their living conditions:
''If they get housing, if they get jobs and if their integration into society
works well, the government in power will get all the credit - and those votes.''

Harris says ''even under the best circumstances, the challenge of building
housing, finding jobs and socially integrating these people would be mind-
boggling.''

Clayman is blunter: He says Shamir's government ''seems intent on messing up
absorption'' - and as a consequence, ''it may face some serious problems.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Tom Roster, USA TODAY

CUTLINE: SHAMIR: Israeli prime minister is wooing Soviet Jews

Ribbon Label; EXODUS; IN SEARCH OF THE PROMISE LAND; 2

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              151 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 27, 1990, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Soviet immigrants struggle in Israel;
Housing, job markets are strained

BYLINE: Paul Hoversten

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 895 words

DATELINE: GILO, Israel


Sergei Makarov, 52, traded what he calls a ''dangerous and alarming'' existence
in the Soviet Union for a new life in Israel.

But the Moscow writer also readily admits that he came here to Israel to please
his wife, Elena, who wanted a better life for their children: Ted, 15, and
Manya, 10.

''I know I will remain a person of Russian culture,'' says Makarov. ''I know I
will remain a stranger here.''

Shaul Kotlyarsky, 28, formerly of the Ukraine, is delighted to join his sister,
parents and grandparents here.

''For me this is a rebirth. I only know one country which is mine, Israel,''
says Kotlyarsky, who came in November. He is waiting for his wife, Helena and
son Elie, 4, to come from Kiev.

Those two represent the extremes of the massive immigration of Soviet Jews that
Israel has strained to accommodate since the Soviet Union threw open its doors
in September 1989.

By the time the emigration tapers off next spring, Israel's 4.6 million people
will have absorbed another million - the equivalent of the USA taking in the
population of France.

Some officials think Israel eventually could get as many as 2.5 million of the
Soviet Union's 3.5 million Jews.

Armed with advanced degrees and growing families, the Soviet immigrants are
stretching Israel's job and housing markets to the breaking point.

''The situation is close to disastrous,'' says Deborah Weill, of the Soviet
Jewry Zionist Forum, a private assistance group founded in 1988 by Soviet
dissident Natan Scharansky.

''We've got Ph.D.s cleaning the streets,'' she says. ''Where housing is
concerned, some have worse conditions than in the Soviet Union.''

Israel's Housing Ministry started construction on 17,000 apartments this year -
far short of its goal of 45,000. And only 300 of 5,000 planned mobile homes are
in place.

Some of those residences are being built in the Occupied Territories, touching
off charges the government is using the emigres as pawns to offset the
Palestinian presence in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.

The United States opposes settling Soviet Jews in the Occupied Territories.

Wherever the residences are built, they are needed. Many immigrant families must
live in spartan hotel rooms, sometimes sharing a kitchen with 19 other families.

Makarov's family lives in a small two-bedroom apartment, about what they had in
Moscow, in a block of apartments.

Kotlyarsky, an Information Officer at the World Zionist Organization, lives in
his parent's home in Jerusalem's Jewish Orthodox Har-Nof district.

With room now running out in many areas, Israel hopes to settle the Soviets in
portions of Galilee, the Negev and the coastal strip.

The government has no plans for large settlements in the occupied West Bank,
although about 1% of the immigrants now live there.

Soviet Jews face a financial struggle almost from the moment they arrive. Moscow
allows them to take just $ 140 per person out of the country.

Israel gives a family of four $ 9,000 the first year, half that the second.

The idea is that once the immigrants have mastered the Hebrew language and
culture, they will move toward self-sufficiency.

But Israel is finding itself with a glut of talent - from concert musicians to
computer experts - that simply can't be matched with work.

Some specialists, like oil engineers and forestry experts, stand virtually no
chance of resuming their career in Israel.

''These are people who can manage on their own if we give them the tools,'' says
Weill. ''They don't need an incredible amount of help.''

Some Soviets are becoming entrepreneurs, starting up Russian language
newspapers, theaters and dance groups.

''But there are an awful lot of over-qualified, disillusioned Russian Jews and
there's going to be awful discontent until they can fund suitable jobs and
housing,'' says Weill.

Soviet Jews ''came from a climate of instability to another climate of
instability,'' says government spokesman Yossi Olmert.

''No one could know two to three years ago that so many would come. We are
stretching to a limit on our budget.''

Israel's latest estimated cost: $ 40 billion.

''Russia is losing some wonderful people,'' says Makarov, who hopes to teach
college English. ''Many Soviet Jews are leaving good jobs for the sake of their
children because it's so dangerous and everybody's against (Soviet President
Mikhail) Gorbachev.''

Lena Keshman, 42, a journalist from Moscow, arrived in Israel last week with
daughter Nastya, 18, and son Sergei, 20.

Her first trip from the Tel Aviv airport was to see her old friends, the
Makarovs, who greeted her family with hugs and kisses and helpings of Israeli
food and wine.

''This is the country of the future and the center of future civilization will
be in Israel,'' she says. ''It's a new home for my children.

But she has no illusions about her family's immediate future: ''Next year's
going to be hard, very hard.''

TEXT OF GRAPHIC

Exodus soars

The Jewish exodus from the Soviet Union has more than doubled in 1990. Migration
in the past decade:
1980       21,471
1981        9,447
1982        2,688
1983        1,314
1984          896
1985        1,140
1986          914
1987        8,155
1988       18,965
1989       71,196
1990(1)   147,386

1 - Through November
Source: National Conference on Soviet Jewry

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, Source: National Conference on Soviet Jewry; PHOTO; b/w, Boris
Yurchenko, AP; PHOTO; b/w, Nathan Harnik, AP

CUTLINE: EN ROUTE TO ISRAEL: About 300 Soviet Jews stand in line in front of the
Netherlands consulate in Moscow to get their visas. CUTLINE: ARRIVING IN ISRAEL:
Soviet Jews laden with luggage land at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion airport.

Ribbon Label; EXODUS; IN SEARCH OF THE PROMISE LAND; 2

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              152 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 4, 1989, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

NATIONLINE

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 549 words



 SEABROOK OK: The Seabrook nuclear power plant moved a step closer to licensing.
A Nuclear Regulatory Commission panel approved New Hampshire's portion of an
evacuation plan for a 10-mile radius around the plant. The NRC still has to
approve a similar plan for Massachusetts before the plant could get a commercial
license. Massachusetts officials oppose Seabrook and won't cooperate, but
federal officials got the go-ahead to proceed without state help. Since
completion two years ago, the $ 5.7 billion plant has been idle due to
evacuation disputes. Seabrook officials hope to have a commercial license late
this year, spokesman Sean O'Neill said.

WEAPONS PLANTS: It will take 20 years and cost $ 81 billion to modernize nuclear
weapons plants, the Department of Energy says in a classified report to
Congress. A copy was obtained by Morris News Service and made available to The
Associated Press. The plan: upgrade Rocky Flats plant near Denver while new
facilities are built in Idaho, Aiken, S.C. Rocky Flats would close, along with
facilities near Richland, Wash., and Fernald, Ohio.

IMMIGRATION RAIDS: Trial opened in San Jose, Calif., civil rights case on the
scope of immigration raids at work sites. Hispanic, labor and employer groups
say Immigration and Naturalization Service agents use pretexts to detain all
Hispanic-looking workers. They cited 25 raids where the INS named 32 people in
search warrants but made 481 arrests. Sought: stricter requirements to obtain
warrants.

DARTMOUTH DECISION: A Concord, N.H., judge ordered suspensions lifted against
former editors of the Dartmouth Review, a conservative student newspaper. Cited:
bias of disciplinary board members. Left open: disciplinary action against
Christopher Baldwin, John Sutter by a new board. The two, who are white, were
suspended in March for 18 months for their role in a classroom encounter with a
black professor of music, William Cole.

SADDENED STUDENTS: It was a sad return to classes at Remer (Minn.) Elementary
School, where five classmates were killed in a New Year's Day house fire.
Psychologists and clergy were on hand to counsel kids. Pupils ''dealt very
directly with what happened. They shared their feelings and fears,'' said
Principal Mike Doro. ''It went very well.''

ECCLESIA CLOSES: The Ecclesia Athletic Association is closing - out of cash and
with four members facing manslaughter charges in the beating death of the
founder's 8-year-old daughter. The group was formed in Los Angeles in 1975 to
steer inner-city kids from crime and drugs. It operated a camp in Clackamas,
Ore., where the daughter of founder Eldridge Broussard died from a beating last
year.

 Dioceses approve female bishop

Rev. Barbara Harris, the first elected female bishop in the 450-year history of
the Episcopal Church, has been confirmed by a majority of church diocesan
committees around the USA - a major hurdle. Ratification by church bishops is
expected. Getting at least half the 118 committees to approve was ''the only
serious obstacle to her consecration,'' said James Solheim, spokesman for the
Episcopal Diocese of Boston. Harris, 58, an associate pastor in North
Philadelphia, will be consecrated Feb. 11. She will serve the Boston diocese,
the church's largest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, Anthony W. Lanier, USA TODAY (Map, New Hampshire); PHOTO; b/w, AP
(Barbara Harris)

CUTLINE: HARRIS: Consecration set for Feb. 11

TYPE: Nationline

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              153 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 16, 1989, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Canada weighs refuge for stranded family

BYLINE: Enrique Corredera

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 241 words


His woes began with a Christmas vacation to Niagara Falls, N.Y.

The family, with no official status in the USA, entered Canada Dec. 23 to take
pictures. U.S. immigration agents turned them away when they tried to come back
20 minutes later.

Their temporary visa to Canada expired this morning.

Fajardo - seeking political refugee status - said he knew his temporary permit
to remain in the USA did not allow him to leave. But he said he thought it was
OK because Canadian officials did not ask for any papers at the border.

Fajardo left Miami with $ 1,500.By last week the money was gone, but friends and
relatives sent a $ 300 check.

They are being charged just $ 20 a day to stay in a Niagara Falls, Ontario,
motel, and volunteers have brought food.

U.S. immigration officials say Fajardo nullified his asylum application when he
crossed the border. They say it would be unfair to other immigrants to allow the
family back into the USA.

Fajardo admits entering the USA illegally from Mexico in 1985.

As he fights to return to his adopted home, Fajardo worries about his children -
Yordalys, 9, and Yoandys, 12.

All they wanted was to see snow for Christmas, Fajardo said of his children.
''And now here we are trapped in a tiny room.

''I never thought the law would be so harsh. My children shouldn't suffer for a
mistake I made.''

But he has hope: ''I know that some day we will be back because God will not
abandon us.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Will Yurman, AP (Carlos Fajardo, Bermaida, Yordalys,
Yoandys, O

CUTLINE: IN CANADA: Carlos Fajardo with his wife, Bermaida, and two children,
Yordaly, left, and Yoandys at a hotel room in Niagara Falls, Ontario.

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              154 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 17, 1989, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Face-off: Making room for refugees;
We can't afford to admit every refugee

BYLINE: Ernest W. Lefever, Guest columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 299 words


Tyranny produces refugees. Experts estimate that 50,000 Soviet citizens, mostly
Jews and Armenians, will apply for U.S. visas this year. Some 100,000
Nicaraguans are expected to arrive. And the flow of oppressed from Vietnam's
Marxist regime will continue. Those seeking political asylum should be given
preference over immigrants seeking economic opportunity.

The persecuted and oppressed merit our compassion. We in this land of refugees
are a generous people. But our resources are finite. Our sympathy must be
tempered by realism. To open the floodgates to all who seek to breathe free
would serve neither them nor us. We cannot escape agonizing decisions.

Miami has become the haven for thousands fleeing Central America and the
Caribbean. The State Department estimates that each refugee costs the government
$ 7,000. Providing housing and jobs, but not public services, for 100,000 in
Miami would cost about $ 2 billion in a county of 2.1 million people.

Money is only part of the problem. Ultimately, it is our teeming cities and
small Midwestern towns that must absorb people from alien climes and cultures.
Giving them the opportunity they deserve and making them feel at home is no
small task.

These are not the early frontier days when we could offer a family a mule and an
acre of land. All the land is taken, and we now have a welfare state that
provides many services and transfer payments underwritten by those who work and
pay taxes.

Concerned Americans can do two things to lessen the man-made refugee problem:

- Families and churches can sponsor refugees from Southeast Asia and Central
America.

- More important, we can support U.S. foreign policies designed to bring an end
to refugee-producing regimes or to prevent their establishment in the first
place.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w (Ernest W. Lefever)

TYPE: Opinion

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              155 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 21, 1989, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

'Without hope, future';
Soviet Jews in Italy wait to emigrate to USA;
'Glasnost' an immigration nightmare

BYLINE: Marilyn Greene

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1068 words

DATELINE: LADISPOLI, Italy


''Life here isn't a big problem for one or two months, if we would know our
future,'' says Mark Glodner, 27, a urologist from Riga. ''But we don't know
anything. The problem is psychological.''

This growing backlog is one of several pressing U.S. immigration problems: The
tip of southern Texas is a hectic scene this week as throngs of Central
Americans fleeing war and poverty seek political asylum. Since last June, 30,000
Nicaraguans have entered the USA, and thousands more are expected this year.
Officials think several thousand of the 5 million Afghanistan refugees camped in
Pakistan will want to emigrate to the country this year.

But the situation with Soviet Jews is perhaps the touchiest. Israel extends
visas to Soviet Jews allowing them to leave the Soviet Union, but 90 percent
want to go to the USA, where virtually all have friends and relatives. Israel is
angry and embarrassed about that choice - and finds itself at odds with USA Jews
who help resettle Soviet Jewish immigrants. Next year, at least 30,000 more
Soviet Jews are expected to leave the Soviet Union, seeking homes abroad.

Glasnost is what brought these Soviet Jews from a life of waiting to waiting for
a new life. Every week, hundreds more arrive by way of Vienna from the Soviet
Union. But unless they gain refugee status allowing them entry into the United
States - and many don't - the wait could be months to enter under normal
immigration procedures.

The Italians will steer many of them to this sunny resort town, whose off-season
empty apartments can accommodate the influx. But ''it's not a resort for people
who have no future,'' says optical engineer Mikhail Geller, 39, from Leningrad,
who's been turned down twice for U.S. refugee status.

Leo Briskin, 21, sleeps on a cot in the kitchen of a three-room apartment he
shares with six others. It's cold and damp, without central heat because it's
meant to be used in summer. Two children have chronic coughs and runny noses.
The $ 450 rent will double when the holiday season begins.

''The problem isn't sleeping in the kitchen,'' says Briskin, who's from Moscow
and wants to go to a USA college. ''The problem is getting out.''

But just as Mikhail Gorbachev's reform and openness programs result in more exit
visas, the United States gets more selective - no longer automatically
considering all Soviet Jews to be refugees from religious persecution.

Behind the policy change:

- The White House last month agreed to participate in a 1991 Moscow human rights
conference, based on a judgment there are fewer Soviet human rights violations.

- U.S. officials point to the Feb. 12 opening of the Solomon Mikloels Cultural
Center - the first Jewish center of its kind in Moscow - as another sign of
reversal in Soviet anti-Semitism.

- Bowing to Gramm-Rudman budget restrictions, the Justice Department wants to
limit refugee costs. The government provides each refugee with $ 1,000 in
settlement assistance.

Since September, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has rejected 250
applications, a turnaround from past practice that almost always granted refugee
status to any Soviet Jew who had obtained permission to leave his country.

''There is no consistency,'' says Merrill Rosenberg of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid
Society's office in Italy. ''I see ill-trained interviewers. I see all decisions
as being essentially arbitrary.''

Says Amalia Rivkin, 34, a singer from Moscow: ''I had a great dream to go to
America with my son, who is good in mathematics.'' After six months in Ladispoli
and one rejection, ''I have no dream. We're without hope, without a future. We
could not have expected this change in policy. We're stuck here without reasons,
with nothing to say to our children.''

Soviet emigres could enter the USA on ''parole'' status, but they wouldn't be
eligible for benefits - or citizenship. The State and Justice departments are
working on a new immigration class called ''national interest,'' which
supposedly would keep open the option of citizenship. Under regular immigrant
status, only 270,000 people worldwide are allowed in each year, including a
20,000 person limit for each country.

Glodner, the urologist, wants to go to Savannah, Ga., to live near his Uncle
Chaim. His refugee application was turned down Jan. 17. ''Now we're waiting. We
don't know for what. For a change in decision. We want the U.S. policy to be
that all Jews are refugees. We don't understand how the embassy makes its
decision. One person is a refugee, another isn't.''

The Shulmans - Iosif, 38, Tatyana, 32, and their two children - have lived in
Ladispoli more than a year, among the longest of any of the emigres.

A guitarist with the Minsk philharmonic orchestra, he left with his family -
including Tatyana's ailing parents - to start a new life in New York. Last
September, the parents were allowed to enter as immigrants, to live with their
son. Tatyana and her family, rejected as refugees, now agonize over not being
able to join them. ''We want to live with our parents,'' she says. ''They need
us and we need them. Nobody expected this when we left Minsk.''

Morton Kornreich, 62, chairman of the USA's United Jewish Appeal, says refugee
status ought to be automatic for Soviet Jews. ''Anti-Semitism is endemic in the
Soviet Union,'' he says.

The UJA has just launched a $ 200 million fund-raising campaign to provide
emigres with housing and settlement assistance, particularly in Israel. But the
organization finds itself in a bind. It publicly supports Israel's position -
and urges refugees to go there. However, it also will provide relocation
benefits for those who want to settle in the USA and regularly raises $ 725
million a year for Jewish causes around the world.

''There's a lot of anguish and thought on how to deal with this,'' Kornreich
says. But his ''Israel needs you'' pep talk falls on mostly deaf ears in
Ladispoli.

The preferred destination: New York City, where 45 percent of Soviet emigres
settle. Others go to Boston, Los Angeles, Chicago, Philadelphia and San
Francisco. But, Kornreich says, ''We have an obligation to try and induce them
to go to Israel. Israel needs them - the United States doesn't.''

New immigration policy starts in Texas today,3A - Supporters say it'll mean
'same day service' for Central American refugees. - Opponents say it will
backfire and drive refugees underground.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; color, Michele Pignatiello (Semyon Nemirovsky, son Stanislav,
wife Lyudmila); PHOTO; color, Bob Fitzgerald (Tony Jose Garcia Ortiz, Judith del
Carmen Togos, Ruth Elizabeth Garcia Ortiz); PHOTO; color, Marilyn Greene, USA
TODAY (Morton Kornreich)

CUTLINE: IN ITALY: Refugees Semyon Nemirovsky, 60, with son Stanislav, 3, wife
Lyudmila. After quitting the Communist Party and leaving the Soviet Union, he
was turned down by U.S. CUTLINE: IN TEXAS: Nicaraguans Tony Jose Garcia Ortiz,
left, Judith del Carmen Togos and Ruth Elizabeth Garcia Ortiz. CUTLINE: MORTON
KORNREICH: 'Israel needs you'

TYPE: Cover Story

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              156 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  February 22, 1989, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

'Yes-or-no' immigration mostly no's

BYLINE: Julie Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 110 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, Texas


The policy - giving a one-day answer to asylum requests - was inaugurated after
thousands poured over the border.

Up to today, most were allowed to remain in the USA until their cases were
reviewed.

Tuesday's applicants numbered less than half of those who applied Monday.

Sewell calls the rejection rate ''no surprise. We talked to 40,000 of these
people in the last seven months, so we've heard most of their stories.''

Projecto Libertad's Jonathan Moore says applicants, ''faced with ... indefinite
detention,'' will go back.

Refugees, including old women and children, waited all day in open-air tents for
interviews averaging 45 minutes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              157 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 1, 1989, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Don't judge a religion by its leaders' actions

BYLINE: Barbara Reynolds

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 217 words



USA TODAY: What accounts for the growing numbers of Moslems in the USA?
HADDAD: One reason is immigration. In the last 20 years, we have had a large
influx of a ''brain drain'' - professional Moslem engineers, doctors and lawyers
who have immigrated to fill the gaps in our educational system because they
specialize in sciences. Second, through chain migration, you have their
relatives coming in. Also, Moslems tend to have larger families than the general
public. And it's growing through conversion - people both from the
African-American community and the Anglo community.

USA TODAY: How would you describe the status of women in Moslem countries?
HADDAD: Moslems look at the status of women in Islam as superior to that in both
Christianity and Judaism. They say that in the United States, women are abused,
looked at as sex objects, used and abandoned. Women are married for a few years
and then the husbands move on to another wife and abandon their children, and
their first wife they never provide for. Whereas Islam would provide for its
children in cases of divorce. So they have a certain legal right given to women
which they believe the American system does not provide. They believe that women
in Islam may not have as much freedom, but they are respected more.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w (Yvonne Yazbeck Haddad)

TYPE: Inquiry

Accompanies; Topic; THE WORLD OF ISLAM; We preach peace and love, not hate

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              158 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 2, 1989, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Change, warning

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 76 words


The change comes after settlement of a 1981 federal class-action
lawsuit.--    -  In Texas' Rio Grande Valley, INS officials are warning

churches, social service agencies and city officials that they will face
prosecution if they assist Central Americans who are in this country illegally.

Church and social service agency representatives say they want to help all needy
Central American refugees - documented or not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Accompanies; For Illegals, sky turns unfriendly

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              159 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 10, 1989, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Refugees face long, tough trek;
Thousands head north for asylum

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 230 words

The influx is draining social services in south Texas and in Miami - where many
have gone to live.

A look at the situation:

 How do they get to the USA?

Bus, hitchhike, walk. Many start at travel agencies in Managua, Nicaragua's
Eastern Market. Agencies book bus trips, including visas to Guatemala or Mexico,
for $ 950 to $ 1,500.By bus, it can take two weeks, including waits; on foot, up
to three months. Immigrants pay Mexican smugglers to take them into the USA.

 What is U.S. policy on Cen tral American immigrants who enter the USA
illegally?

Unless they can qualify for political asylum, they are subject to deportation if
caught.

 What are the rules con cerning political asylum?

They must show they would be in danger at the hands of an oppressive government
if they were to return to their home. Most applicants are turned down, but they
have the right to appeal, which could take months or years.

 What happens to them during this process?

Since Feb. 21, those appealing are being held at immigration detention centers,
primarily the Port Isabel center in Texas. Those applying before then were
allowed to go to other cities.

 Why doesn't the U.S. government stop them from entering the country?

The Border Patrol arrests and deports thousands each month but says it doesn't
have the personnel or the money to seal the border.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Ribbon Label; 'EL NORTE' BECKONS CENTRAL AMERICANS; 4

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              160 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 10, 1989, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Roadblocks on way to USA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 170 words

''We had nothing. We were living on handouts,'' she says of herself, 12-year-old
son Edck.

Arriaga, Mexico: Ana Maria Gaitan, whose fourth child was born in the USA, was
traveling with husband Marvin and 3 children when they were robbed. They had to
stop trip, work to make more for bus fare before continuing.

Veracruz, Mexico: Cecelia Gutierrez tried to teach her children to call her
''ma'' - the Mexican way - instead of ''mama'' - the Nicaraguan way - to escape
detection.

Matamoros, Mexico: Margarita Saavedra, 45, and her 80-year-old mother are stuck
at a Catholic shelter. ''We came and we've found that we can't get in (to the
USA), that there are new laws, and now er're trapped here without money,'' she
says.

Finish: Brownsville, Texas Beefed-up Border Patrol and political asylum
processing staff await those who cross the Rio Grande. Catholic Church and Red
Cross run shelters for arriving immigrants. INS using tents to hold overflow at
nearby detention center. Source: USA TODAY research

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, Jeff Dionise, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY research, Stand alone
graphic (map, Latin America, photo collage); PHOTO; b/w, Bob Strong (Ana Maria
Gaitan and children); PHOTO; b/w, Bob Strong (Cecilia Gutierrez); PHOTO; b/w,
Bob Strong (Jeanette Castillo)

Ribbon Label; 'EL NORTE' BECKONS CENTRAL AMERICANS; 4

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              161 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 10, 1989, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Making a trip 'through hell'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 329 words


''That's when the federal police picked me up. They put us in a vehicle and took
me to a private house. I was afraid, because they didn't take us to a jail. I
escaped and got to the river, where I bribed a guard ($ 100) to cross.''

He's now living in Miami.

Alejandro Martinez, 36, fled Nicaragua with his wife and child and paid a
''coyote,'' or smuggler, $ 3,000 to bring them to the USA. He's at Casa Oscar
Romero in Brownsville but can't go farther due to a tightened U.S. policy on
political asylum.

His situation is a litany of Central American problems:

''I have served in the military three times,'' he says. ''I have four more years
to go before they can no longer call me back. I can't work. I can't make a life
for my family.

''Nicaragua is devastated - by war and economically. We cannot go to Costa Rica.
We cannot go to Honduras - our country is in conflict with Honduras. We cannot
go to El Salvador - the guerrillas are in conflict with their government. And
Mexico? There's nothing there. The answer for us is here: the United States.''

Alejandro Masis Avilez says Matamoros police threatened to turn him in to
immigration officers unless he paid them -$ 26 -to take him to a Catholic
shelter.

''It wasn't the first time,'' says Masis, 20. ''In Mexico City, they stripped me
naked and searched my private parts to check for money. They've robbed me all
the way here. Now I have nothing, but at least I arrived.''

Nine hours after reaching the USA, he was arrested and taken to a detention
center.

Aura Lopez, 49, who arrived in Miami several months ago, wonders if her husband
will be able to make it into the USA.

''My husband sold our house (in Managua). He's on his way now,'' she says. ''It
was hard to sell. Everyone who has the money to buy wants to leave.''

The last she heard, he was in Guatemala waiting for a loosening of U.S.
immigration policy.

Contributing: Jeanne DeQuine, Julie Morris, Mary Benanti, Paul Salopek.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, USA TODAY (Andres Cuellar); PHOTO; b/w, USA TODAY
(Alejandro Masis Avilez)

CUTLINE: Andrea Cuellar CUTLINE: Alejandro Masis Avilez

Ribbon Label; 'EL NORTE' BECKONS CENTRAL AMERICANS; 4

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              162 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 14, 1989, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 82 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE

Cited: Firefighters already are exposed to smoke, toxic gases; many die of heart
disease. Some localities already have law. ... BELLE GLADE - Environmental
agencies this week plan to discuss strategy for finding source of mercury in
Everglades-region fish. Possible action: testing bottom muck of 700,000-acre
Everglades Agricultural Area. ... MIAMI -Flow of Central American refugees into
area has been halved since Feb. 21 crackdown on Texas border, say church,
immigration officials.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              163 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 19, 1989, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Dutch AIDS patient puts celebrity to use

BYLINE: Paul Clancy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 284 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has made Hans Paul Verhoef a world
celebrity and a man with a cause.

Verhoef, 31, a Dutch health official who has AIDS, was imprisoned in Minnesota
April 2 for five days after stopping on his way to a San Francisco AIDS
conference.

''Such a welcome,'' Verhoef said wryly Tuesday at the offices of the AIDS Action
Council in Washington.

Since his release on a waiver of health laws, Verhoef has been busy making
speeches and holding news conferences. His mission: promoting understanding of
people with the disease and working to change the law used to detain him.

''It's not right to think you can stop the virus at the border,'' he says.
''It's better to put energy to programs that teach people how to prevent getting
or spreading it.''

The former civil engineer from Delft, the Netherlands, will visit Capitol Hill
today to lobby for legislation easing restrictions on those entering the
country.

As interpreted by the U.S. Public Health Service, the law bars everyone with the
HIV virus, including tourists, those seeking treatment or, like Verhoef,
visiting professionals. ''He is, in the eyes of the law, inadmissible,'' says
INS's Duke Austin.

For the lanky and easygoing Verhoef, his experience in Minnesota was his first
time in jail: ''I hardly had a parking ticket.''

He was jailed after officials found AIDS medication in his luggage. He was first
taken to a Minneapolis jail, then transferred, in handcuffs, to a state
facility. There, he says, his treatment improved. Verhoef has nothing but praise
for Minnesota officials.

''I treated him as I hope I'd be treated if I was picked up and detained in a
foreign country,'' says state corrections commissioner Orvil Pung. He took
Verhoef for a pancake breakfast after his release.

Verhoef feels the attention he's received has its good side. ''Thousands of
people with AIDS could see someone with AIDS standing up for his rights.''

Meanwhile, Verhoef says he's taking the drug AZT and hopes it will buy time
until a cure is found. ''I'm just trying to stay on.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Jim Mone, AP (Hans Paul Verhoef)

CUTLINE: VERHOEF: With attache case given to him by Minnesota prosin officials

TYPE: Newsmakers

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              164 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 25, 1989, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

NEW MEXICO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 36 words

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE

Regents will meet Thursday to reconsider hike. ... COLUMBUS - New $ 2.5 million,
12,000-sq.-ft. border station is replacing smaller, 25-year-old facility.
Building houses immigration, customs, agricultural offices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              165 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 4, 1989, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Fortune, Uncle Sam smile on Florida refugee

BYLINE: Wayne Beissert; Enrique Corredera

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 238 words


- From an immigrant fearing deportation to being granted political asylum.

The 30-year-old Nicaraguan immigrant hit the Florida Lottery for $ 5.3 million
Saturday.

A local newspaper erroneously reported that Somarriba, who crossed the U.S.
border in 1987 at Brownsville, Texas, would be deported.

With wife Maria Elena and three children, ages 9, 7 and 3, Somarriba went into
hiding.

To the rescue: Immigration and Naturalization Service district director Perry
Rivkind, who reviewed the case Wednesday and granted asylum. ''I got involved
because the poor man was told he was being deported,'' says Rivkind.

A man answering Somarriba's telephone Wednesday said Somarriba was ''on
vacation.''

With asylum, Somarriba waits - ''probably years'' - for permanent resident
status. ''He's safe and secure here now,'' says Rivkind. He could only be
deported for committing a crime.

A resident alien, Somarriba pays the same tax - from 28 to 33 percent - as U.S.
citizens on his annual lottery earnings of $ 264,000, says tax expert Jack
Porter of BDO Seidman.

In the unlikely event Somarriba returns to Nicaragua, he would pay a nonresident
alien tax of 30 percent on his U.S. earnings.

In Nicaragua, where government ministers earn $ 80 a month, Somarriba would be
''like a trillionaire,'' says Cecelia Lopez of that country's embassy. His $ 5.3
million equals 39.7 billion cordobas in Nicaragua's inflated currency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Mona Lisa Abbott, AP (Lottery Winners, Justo Ricardo
Somariba, wife Marie Elena)

CUTLINE: WIDE SMILES: Justo Ricardo Somariba and wife Marie Elena had a very
unusual week in Florida.

Accompanying story; Soviet players vie for 2-ply

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              166 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 9, 1989, Friday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. in for Baby Boom bust

BYLINE: William Dunn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 295 words


Analyst Campbell Gibson warns that the future holds fewer workers paying into a
Social Security system supporting more elderly.

One solution: Loosen immigration policies so workers from abroad can fill the
gaps, suggests Carol De Vita, author of a Population Reference Bureau study also
out today.

Says Gibson: ''Even with net immigration of 500,000 per year, we'd have a
population decline.'' The Census Bureau estimates immigration now is 600,000,
but will drop.

The proportion of immigration growth, however - about 26 percent now - will
rise.

De Vita also foresees people retiring later - or not at all.

As Baby Boomers age, ''we're going to have to adapt to the special needs of an
older population'' - health care, transit, housing, she says.
Between now and 2030, the Census Bureau says the number of people over 65 will
double to 65 million. Florida, where seniors are 18 percent of the state
population, gives a glimpse into the 21st century.

Schools must adjust to smaller enrollments - but expand adult education and
high-technology retraining as workers seek to stay current with fast-changing
job needs.

The USA's population in 1987, the year the statistics were gathered: 245
million.

Other findings:

- Median age, now 32.1 years, will top 40 years by 2030.

- Married couples, three-quarters of all households in 1960 and 61 percent by
1980, will be only 53 percent of households by 2000.

- By 2000, a third of school-age children will be minorities.

TEXT OF GRAPHIC Labor force growth slows 140 million will be in the USA's labor
force by 2000, but the number of new workers has been declining since 1971: (
New workers in millions) 1991-2000 15.6(1) 1 - projection COMPLETE TEXT NOT
AVAILABLE Source: Population Reference Bureau

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, Suzy Parker, USA TODAY, Source: Population Reference Bureau
(graph)

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              167 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 10, 1989, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Hispanic seeks 'agenda'

BYLINE: Mary Benanti

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 254 words


The 60-year-old League of United Latin American Citizens, which ended its annual
meeting Sunday in Washington, sees itself as the voice for the USA's 20 million
Hispanics.

While De Lara's predecessor - Oscar Moran - took the league out of the political
arena and into the boardrooms of corporate America, De Lara spent his first year
in office moving the organization back into its position as an advocate for
Hispanic civil rights.

''Though progress has been made in the form of Hispanics elected to major
political positions ... the condition of Hispanics has not improved,'' he says.
''In many cases, sad to say, it has worsened.''

To back up his claim, De Lara cites poverty rates that are up from 21 percent in
1976 to 28 percent in 1988 and a dropout rate for Hispanic high school students
of 45 percent.

On De Lara's agenda:

- Developing a non-profit organization to address the dropout rate in Hispanic
communities and rehabilitate hard-core dropouts.

- Building a working relationship with new U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service officials, and establishing an ''economic corridor'' along the
U.S.-Mexico border to cut the numbers of poor immigrants entering the USA for
jobs.

- Supporting efforts by FBI director William Sessions, who agreed to have his
drug agents work with LULAC councils nationwide.

- Working toward a partnership with the federal government to provide housing
for the poor.

- Establishing a fund to help those who must take their fight for civil rights
to court.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY (Jose Garcia De Lara)

CUTLINE: De LARA: Poverty, dropout rates up

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              168 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 27, 1989, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

NATIONLINE

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 519 words


TEXT OF GRAPHIC Higher speed more deaths Interstate highway deaths in the 38
states that raised the speed limits to 65 mph:
                          '82     '88
Rural highway deaths 65    1,762   2,485
Urban highway deaths       1,519   1,654

COMPLETE TEXT NOT AVAILABLE Source: Insurance Institute for Highway Safety

ENGINE PARTS PROBE: House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman John Dingell,
D-Mich., asked the Federal Aviation Administration to investigate whether
General Electric Co. used scrapped military jet parts on the engine of the
United Airlines DC-10 that crashed in Sioux City, Iowa, last week killing 111
aboard. GE denied the charge.

SCHOOL WOES: New Jersey state education officials should take over Jersey City
schools because the district's 30,000 students are not being taught ''minimum
basic skills needed to survive in modern society,'' Administrative Law Judge
Kenneth Springer ruled. In New York, state Education Commissioner Thomas Sobol
called for disbanding the scandal-plagued New York City Board of Education and
replacing it with five smaller boards under his control.

DEPORTATION CASES: Central American refugees will have a better chance of
gaining political asylum after federal Judge William Justice of Harlingen,
Texas, ruled INS officials often dismiss Salvadorans' requests as frivolous,
immigration advocates said. The INS claims most refugees come to the USA for
economic reasons, not to escape political persecution. Also, a Los Angeles
federal judge will hold a trial to decide if seven Palestinians and a Kenyan
were deported for opposing the USA's Middle East policy.

TOXIC RISK: Federal officials plan to go door-to-door today explaining plans to
temporarily relocate 150 residents of the Forest Glen mobile home park in
Niagara Falls, N.Y. The EPA said five industrial chemicals in the soil and
ground water in the 11-acre neighborhood near Love Canal pose a significant
health risk to the 51 families.

PILOT PROBE: No traces of alcohol or other drugs were found in the blood of
Washington lawyer Thomas Root, the pilot who survived a mysterious shooting and
plane crash in the Atlantic Ocean near the Bahamas, federal investigators said.
Root, 36, reportedly blacked out about an hour after taking off from Washington.
His plane ran out of fuel 800 miles later. He has said he has no recollection of
being shot. Root checked out of a Miami hospital Monday.

McMARTIN TRIAL: Raymond Buckey, the chief defendant in the McMartin Pre-School
molestation trial in Los Angeles, began his long-awaited testimony by denying
ever molesting children. ''No, never,'' said Buckey, 30, a former teacher at the
school run by his mother, Peggy.

PROSTITUTES' RIGHTS: Sen. John Warner, R-Va., called on D.C. Mayor Marion Barry
and the police chief to investigate what he called an ''almost unbelievable
episode'' - police marching 24 prostitutes from the capital's red-light district
to the Virginia line Tuesday night. The appearance of reporters caused police to
end the late-night parade.

Taking the plunge

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, LeRoy Lottman, USA TODAY, Source: Insurance Institute for Highway
Safety (graph); PHOTO; b/w, Steve Helber, AP (Animals - Horses)

CUTLINE: HORSEPLAY: Volunteers drive more than 170 wild ponies across the
Assateague channel to Chincoteague Island, Va., in the 64th annual pony swim
Wednesday. Proceeds from today's equine auction go to local firefighters.

TYPE: Nationline

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              169 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 1, 1989, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Cubans take a 2-step journey to USA

BYLINE: Jeanne DeQuine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


In 1987, 26 Cubans who entered the USA via a third country were being held as
illegal immigrants here. Today, it's 170. In the past nine weeks, officials have
stopped more than 600 without legal papers at Miami International Airport. Many,
including mothers and children, were released to families who live here.

Once in another country, many Cubans find life difficult. Many are eager to see
their families in the USA, so they try to enter.

For example, Maria del Carmen Valdes, 27, left Cuba for Panama with a tourist
visa on May 17, and then came to the USA, where she was arrested.

''I was getting hassled for going to church,'' she says of her life in Cuba.

She could have immigrated legally - her family lives in New Jersey - but didn't
know when she would be OK'd to leave Cuba for the USA.

Rules allowing some Cubans to enter the USA legally, if sponsored, could let
3,500 in over three years, but as many more aren't eligible. Those who enter
illegally may be returned to the third country, but can't be deported to Cuba.

Rene Cordova, 47, was deported to Peru in 1980. He was forced by poverty to come
to the USA. ''We lived in shacks with straw for walls. There was no water, no
electricity,'' says Cordova, who saved the $ 800 Lima-to-Miami plane fare.

But when he arrived in April, he was detained because he entered illegally.

Cordova has a Peruvian wife and two children in Lima. ''I don't have anyone
here. But I want to work. I would like to bring my family.''

TEXT OF GRAPHIC Legal immigration Number of Cubans arriving legally in the USA:
'79   15,585
'88   17,558

COMPLETE TEXT NOT AVAILABLE Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w, Keith Carter, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and Naturalization
Service (Chart, Graph); PHOTO; b/w, Tom Salyer (Rene Cordova)

CUTLINE: ALONE: Rene Cordova left his children in Peru.

Accompanying story; Boatlift organizer was Castro agent

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              170 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   August 16, 1989, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

NATIONLINE

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 116 words

The animal, burned and bruised, is recovering at a zoo that also has her cub,
found Sunday. Both will be released into the wild soon. Wildlife officials were
criticized for not turning off the electricity or placing a net below the pole.

ALSO TUESDAY ...

- PHOENIX: Immigration lawyers sued the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
contending thousands of aliens who were deported were denied a proper chance to
become citizens due to INS technicalities.

- LAKE CITY, Colo.: The bones of the five suspected victims of cannibal Alferd
Packer were reburied in a ceremony by local clergy. Scientists exhumed the bones
last month to study the 1874 incident.

Contributing: David Judson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, AP (bear)

TYPE: Nationline

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              171 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 18, 1989, Friday, FIRST EDITION

CAPITAL LINE

BYLINE: Sharen Shaw Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 318 words


HEALTH PLAN CHANGE SEEN: Congress will change Medicare's new catastrophic health
care plan, key House and Senate leaders predict. Many elderly are angry they're
charged a tax premium to finance the plan. House Speaker Tom Foley, D-Wash.,
said Thursday, ''I would expect that we'll see action very soon, probably in the
next month or so ... particularly to reduce the premiums.'' Said Sen. Lloyd
Bentsen, D-Texas, chairman of a Senate panel reviewing the issue: ''We're going
to bring about a substantial reduction in the supplemental premium.''

ROUND TWO? Wary Hispanic leaders are pushing for an early meeting with Gene
McNary, the St. Louis County, Mo., executive President Bush named to head the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Mario Moreno of the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund said McNary ''brings in administrative
experience.  But he has no immigration experience.'' Said Michael Zamba of the
National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials: ''Nobody wants a
rerun of the Lucas nomination.'' William Lucas, his qualifications in question,
failed to win Senate confirmation as top U.S. civil rights lawyer.

PEOPLE WATCH
- About 2,000 attended the funeral of Rep. Larkin Smith, R-Miss., Thursday and
hundreds sent flowers - including carnations from 20 Harrison County Jail
inmates who said he was an unsually good sheriff before going to Washington.
Smith and pilot Chuck Vierling, 58, were killed when their Cessna crashed
Sunday. Under National Transportation Safety Board investigation: Why the plane
was 9 miles off course. The board's Jeffrey Kennedy said three pilots reported
''the aircraft swerved off the taxiway into the grass, then back onto the
pavement. ... That is kind of strange.''
- Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, just can't seem to evade Boston Harbor. Last
summer, as running mate to Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis, he had to listen
to presidential opponent George Bush harp on the harbor's pollution. This
summer, Bentsen finds himself battling reports that harbor sludge will be sold
as fertilizer in Texas. Says the Environmental Protection Agency's Paul Keough:
''There doesn't seem to be any interest in sending the material to Texas.'' But
Bentsen and Texas Agricultural Commissioner Jim Hightower point to a draft plan
to market Boston sludge as fertilizer, plus an internal EPA memo saying it's
''too filthy to be used as fertilizer under Massachusetts law.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, AP (Lloyd Bentsen); PHOTO; b/w, AP (Tony Coelho)

CUTLINE: BENTSEN: Milred in sludge plan CUTLINE: COELHO: Aggressive whip
Contributing: Mary Benanti, Judi Hasson and Richard Wolf.

TYPE: Capital Line

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              172 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    September 8, 1989, Friday, FINAL EDITION

For Hispanics, hope is to fit in

BYLINE: Mary Benanti

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 215 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The survey - called the first real hard data on Hispanic immigrant attitudes -
debunks the stereotype of the immigrant as a farm worker who doesn't want to
learn English.

''There is a very genuine desire among us to be as American as any person born
here,'' says Leticia Quezada, the first Hispanic elected to the Los Angeles
Board of Education.

''We maintain our traditions, particularly our language, but we participate in
the traditions of the United States,'' she says.

While the study found that 87 percent want to become naturalized, nearly
one-third of the USA's 19.4 million Hispanics are not citizens; they are not
eligible to vote and therefore politically powerless.

''The national parties have a pool of potential voters here,'' NALEO director
Michael Zamba says. He says U.S. political parties traditionally have not wooed
Hispanic immigrants as they have wooed others.

Despite their common language, they are a diverse group: half of the respondents
are from Mexico, one-fourth from Cuba, the remainder from Central and South
America.

Most Cubans have come as political refugees; most Mexicans come to the USA for
jobs or to join other family members. Among Cubans, 63 percent are registered
Republicans; the plurality of Mexicans - 42 percent - are Democrats.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EAR PHOTO; color, Brian Wilson (Henry Cisneros)

CUTLINE: CISNEROS: 'We all have state' in USA.

Ribbon Label; IMMIGRANT SURVEY; 2

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              173 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 4, 1989, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

NATIONLINE

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 298 words


ALSO TUESDAY ...
- CHICAGO: United Airlines Flight 539 carrying 77 passengers to Salt Lake City
returned to O'Hare Airport due to an engine-fire warning light. A United
spokeswoman said there was a ruptured heating duct but no fire.
- CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.: NASA engineers began replacing a faulty computer on the
Galileo space probe. Officials said it could delay the tentative Oct. 12 launch
of the shuttle Atlantis, which will send the probe to Jupiter.
- CAMBRIDGE, Md.: Firefighters put out a 21-hour blaze that melted 5 million
pounds of butter and did $ 3 million damage to the East Coast Cold Storage
warehouse.
- TALLAHASSEE, Fla.: Former school custodian Sylvester Mitchell, 24, was charged
with murder in the shooting of custodian Harley Colvin, 35, in front of 100
pupils at Killearn Lakes Elementary School. Two shots were fired at pupils, but
no one was hurt. Motive: unknown.
- OKLAHOMA CITY: Native Americans at their annual convention added maximizing
their count in the 1990 Census and AIDS to their list of major issues this year.

- BURLINGTON, Vt.: Immigration agents, acting on a tip, arrested nine illegal
Polish immigrants working on the roof of a building housing the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service. They face deportation hearings.

Housing protesters arrive in D.C.

The first of more than 100,000 demonstrators - half of them homeless - began
arriving in Washington for a Saturday's march to spotlight the need for decent,
affordable housing. ''Forty years ago Congress committed this nation to the
creation of safe, decent and affordable housing,'' said housing advocate Mitch
Snyder. ''Today, New York, Los Angeles, Boston and Washington look like
Calcutta.'' Housing Secretary Jack Kemp will meet with some of the marchers
Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, USA TODAY (Mitch Snyder)

CUTLINE: SNYDER: Urges affordable housing Contributing: Laurence Jolidon, Helen
Altonn and LaBarbara Bowman

TYPE: Nationline

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              174 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     October 6, 1989, Friday, FINAL EDITION

DEBATE;
Opening our hearts will help all refugees

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 480 words


Almost 8,000 left jobs, belongings, homes and friends to seek a new life. They
climbed walls and waded rivers, faced beatings and braved barbed wire to flee
East Germany's repressive regime. Finally, they boarded trains that took them to
a new life.

Thousands more are following in their footsteps today. Their courage deserves
the free world's support.

Some people like the writer across this page say the only way the USA can truly
show its support is to open its doors to any person fleeing communism's grip.
The U.S. House in July made a similar statement when it voted that all Soviet
Jews would be considered refugees, eligible for aid to come here because they
faced persecution at home.

That open-hearted response reflects our heritage. We're a nation of immigrants,
men and women who sought freedom and opportunity. We shouldn't turn our back on
those making that same desperate journey today.

And we haven't.

The USA will welcome to our shores 125,000 refugees next year, up from 75,000 in
1988. Next year, 50,000 Soviet Jews will be brought here, up from 6,500 two
years ago.

In addition to refugees, the Senate has voted to open our doors to 630,000
immigrants who pay their own way to come here. They'll include relatives of
recent immigrants and people whose skills will add to our economy.

And legislation before a Senate committee this week would offer 750,000 Central
Americans visas to work here for three years. They've crossed into Texas,
Arizona and California to escape civil wars at home.

These efforts are true to our immigrant roots. They uphold the promise on our
Statue of Liberty.

But we can't keep that promise of opportunity to those who live here and those
who want to come if we simply fling our doors open without assuring fairness to
all.

Two million people have applied to live here. Some have been waiting for years.
It wouldn't be fair to pay the way of others who aren't truly persecuted, even
if they come from behind the Iron Curtain.

Fifteen million people are refugees worldwide, including 300,000 Laotians,
Vietnamese and Cambodians in camps in Thailand. The $ 7,000 in tax dollars spent
to bring one refugee here can provide food and shelter for 100 refugees waiting
in those camps. That money should be spent first on those who've been in line
longest.

And more than a million people here are homeless; 30 million are poor. We can't
promise opportunity to others if we can't promise the same to those already
here.

To help refugees, we can work with friends to find homes for those fleeing
tyranny. We can support international efforts for aid and refuge. And we can set
standards that treat all those who want to come here fairly.

The whole free world should open its arms to the world's oppressed to secure
liberty's promise for all.

TEXT OF CARTOON BUT, COMRADE HONECKER, THE TRAIN HAS LEFT THE STATION!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON; b/w, David Seavey, USA TODAY (drawing, Eric Honecker climbing
fence, guard pulling him down)

TYPE: Opinion

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              175 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     October 6, 1989, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Open our doors to help refugees and the USA

BYLINE: Bruce Fein, Guest columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 419 words



Bruce Fein is a columnist for Legal Times and The Washington Times.

 GREAT FALLS, Va. - There is but one sensible and honorable refugee policy for
the USA in response to the thousands fleeing East Germany with ecstasy and moxie
and queuing up outside the U.S. embassy in Moscow:

Unlimited admissions for all escapees from regimes in the Eastern Bloc and other
communist tyrannies.

Pages of history are worth volumes of logic. The USA was built by immigrants
whose self-selection ensured economic ingenuity, educational aspirations and
devotion to political liberty. Virtually no limits were placed on immigrants for
a century, and later, preceding World War I, over 1 million entered annually and
were assimilated without difficulty.

Since World War II, the USA has persistently scolded communist nations for
locking up their citizens and generally vindicated a tacit pledge of sanctuary
for escapees. Thus, we denounced the Berlin Wall, officially subscribed to a
right of free emigration in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the
Helsinki Accords, and require the same of countries as a condition to receiving
international trading benefits under the Jackson-Vanik amendment.

We welcomed 40,000 Hungarians fleeing Budapest after the abortive 1956 revolt,
hundreds of thousands fleeing from Fidel Castro's Cuba and millions escaping
from Vietnam's political totalitarianism after 1975.

Are these inspiring words and actions to be no more than a munificent bequest in
a pauper's will for today's Eastern European refugees?

Immigrants from communist regimes are an economic and political tonic. As those
currently fleeing East Germany demonstrate, they are typically young, talented,
ambitious and wedded to political norms of democracy. These earmarks are why
they cannot stomach communism and willingly confront a new life where all that
is promised is opportunity.

Emigrants prize the right to vote and to participate in self-government, lacking
in their native countries, as our Cuban-Americans illustrate. They excel
scholastically. Thus, Asian-Americans stand atop the California state university
system and Vietnamese immigrants win the lion's share of academic honors in
Boston's public high schools.

A nation's most valuable assets are its people, not some arbitrary ratio of land
to population. Otherwise, Japan would be economically anemic and Chad would be
an economic superpower.By welcoming the best and the brightest, anxious to flee
Eastern Europe, the Soviet Union and communist China, we would be weakening our
adversaries and strengthening ourselves without military confrontation.

We would further inspire these adversaries to reforms simpatico with Western
democracy and thus lower international tensions. In the manner of Gen. Douglas
MacArthur's ''old soldier,'' communism need not die in bloody battle but would
simply fade away peacefully.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Opinion

An opposing view

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              176 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     October 6, 1989, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Let's get rid of distortion glasses

BYLINE: Patricia Nelson Limerick, Guest columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 368 words


Conquest - the European invasion of North America and displacement of the
natives - has had the hardest time filing down its rough edges. Myths of simple,
earnest Pilgrims aside, brutal warfare and the introduction of devastating
diseases are hard to get nostalgic about. No wonder public memory tends to skip
over this one and save the sentiment and pride for the next two.

Revolution - the armed overthrow of British authority - has proven easier to
handle.By declaring our revolution exceptional, and thoroughly respectable,
we've found a way to oppose revolution and support the status quo elsewhere.

But immigration, that's the tricky one. Except for American Indians, everyone
currently ''proud to be an American'' has, in his origin, a phase when his
ancestors were ''un-American,'' residents of another place and nation entirely.

And thus the alchemy of memory creates its mysterious distinctions: Mass
immigration is sacred and justified if it took place in the remote past,
disturbing and unsettling if it takes place in the present.

''Back then, 20 or 50 or 100 or 200 years ago,'' these descendants of immigrants
have thought, whether in 1900 or 1989, ''we had plenty of room and plenty of
opportunity. But now, things are tight, constricted, crowded. These people are
simply too late.''

In immigration, the passage of time works like the soft-focus lens an old
Clairol commercial. Viewed from a distance, the immigrant moves toward the host
country with the symmetrical happiness of the Clairol girl approaching the
Clairol man. But take off the soft-focus lens and the process has always been a
rough one - the immigrants' exultation at finding a refuge often followed by
disillusionment and frustration, and with ''natives'' often looking at
''aliens'' with suspicion and hostility.

We are not, one hopes, likely to repeat the phase of conquest, and a second
revolution seems unlikely. But immigration - that one we will repeat, and we may
as well do it with open eyes and without the soft-focus lens. Immigrants arrive
with a mixed cargo of new vitality and new tensions, and no customs office can
find a way to eliminate the tensions without also sacrificing the vitality.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Opinion

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              177 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 23, 1989, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Amerasians build lives in fathers' land

BYLINE: Carol Memmott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 792 words


The reason he likes it here: ''freedom,'' he says.

He and his family live in Phoenix, which has one of the USA's fastest-growing
Amerasian populations. About 200 families have settled there.

More arrive this week - part of a growing wave of half-Asian, half-American
immigrants leaving the land where many are not wanted for the land of their
fathers.

Since the mid-1970s, 6,300 Amerasians and 14,000 accompanying relatives have
moved to the USA. Nearly 3,000 Amerasians settled here in fiscal year 1989,
according to the U.S. State Department.

The government is planning for as many as 15,000 Amerasians and immediate
relatives next year.

Reason for the increase: Congress passed the Amerasian Homecoming Act in 1987.
It gave Amerasians born between Jan. 1, 1962, and Jan. 1, 1976, until March 1990
to apply for immigrant visas. The new law provides refugee benefits for
immigrating Amerasians and their families.

That law followed the 1982 Amerasian Immigration Act, which offered top-priority
immigration to children in Vietnam, Korea, Laos and Cambodia known to have been
fathered by U.S. citizens.

Amerasians who want to enter the USA spend six months in the Philippines
studying English and U.S. culture.

''Their biggest hurdle is their lack of education in Vietnam,'' says Tammy
Veater, a social worker with Catholic Social Services of Phoenix. ''Many are
illiterate in Vietnamese and have no transferable job skills.''

The government settles Amerasians in cities in 27 states - chosen for the social
services they can offer.

When U.S. troops pulled out of Vietnam in 1975, an estimated 20,000 half-Asian,
half-American offspringof U.S. military and civilian men were left behind.

Those Amerasians are now young adults struggling to survive in a culture that
belittles their mixed heritage. Many share the dream of resettling in the USA.

''Many Amerasians are facing great discrimination in Vietnam,'' says Fred
Messick of World Vision, a U.S. relief agency offering vocational training and
counseling to Amerasians. ''They are a reminder of the American presence in
Vietnam and a reminder of the Vietnam War.''

Without a job, life was hard for Tran, his mother and Amerasian half brother in
Da Nang, a central Vietnam city.

''His mother decided the family would come to the U.S. because she wanted them
to have a good future,'' says Mai Huynh, a bilingual social worker for Catholic
Social Services of Phoenix.

Since he arrived in the USA with his family in August 1988, life is better.

The biggest hurdle: learning English. Tran hopes the English classes he attends
several times a week will help him meet his goal of becoming a mechanic.

Phuong Nguyen, 18, arrived in Phoenix on Aug. 31 with her mother and half
sister.

A sophomore at Camelback Central High School in Phoenix, Nguyen is working hard
to improve her English and hopes to join the school volleyball team.

Nguyen says she didn't experience racial prejudice in Vietnam, but her family
hoped for a better life in the USA. Nguyen's mother sold cigarettes on the
streets of Nha Trang. Now she works in a Phoenix restaurant.

Nguyen's hopes for the future: to finish high school, improve her English and
join a volunteer agency to help other refugees.

Phong Vo, 17, also attends Camelback Central High. He arrived from Bien Hoa on
Aug. 13 with his mother and his half sister.

''He's making lots of friends in school. He really likes it here,'' says Lan Le,
director of Lutheran Social Ministries in Phoenix.

Vo hopes to meet his father. The Central Arizona Refugee Ecumenical Service and
the American Red Cross are helping him search. He has his father's name, an old
address, a picture and the date his father left Vietnam.

Vo's goal: to join the Army after high school and train to be a pilot.

Longh Nguyen, 24, is from Pleiku in Central Vietnam. He lives with Tran and his
family and shares Tran's dream of one day becoming a mechanic.

As a black Amerasian, he faced greater problems of ''prejudice, rejection and
isolation,'' says Messick. Nguyen always had hopes of coming to the USA.

To get ready, he began studying English in Vietnam. He arrived in the USA in
1988.

''He tried to learn English because he wants American society to accept him,''
says Huynh.

Nguyen knows nothing about his father - yet he has hopes, like many Amerasians,
of finding him, even though he has no idea how to go about it.

The odds are slim.

''Many Amerasians come in with pictures of their father and ask us to help them
find them,'' says Messick. ''The tragedy is that only about 2 percent of these
young people and their fathers ever hook up.''

It's really sad because all they know is their father's first name or have just
a picture of him,'' said Veater.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Rob Schumacher (Longh Nguyen, Thinh Cong Tran); PHOTO; b/w,
Rob Schumacher (Phuong Nguyen); PHOTO; b/w, Rob Schumacher (Phong Vo)

CUTLINE: SEEKING SECURE FUTURE: Longh Nguyen and Thinh Cong Tran dream of
becoming mechanics. CUTLINE: NGUYEN; Wants to help other refugees CUTLINE: VO;
Hopes to find his father

TYPE: Statesline

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              178 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 21, 1992, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Kuwaitis are 'treating us like animals'

BYLINE: Jack Kelley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1005 words

DATELINE: KUWAIT CITY


One year after liberation, hundreds of foreign workers are being beaten and
raped by Kuwaiti citizens and soldiers.

Fifteen-year-old Amena Sarapy still vomits and urinates blood weeks after being
punched repeatedly by her Kuwaiti employer.

And she's one of the ''lucky'' ones, diplomats say: Freda, 20, is pregnant after
being raped by her Kuwaiti boss. ''It wasn't like this before the war,'' says
Marife Venzon, 31, who ran away from her employer after he tried to rape her.
''The Kuwaitis are now treating us like animals.''

Many bruised, bleeding and pregnant women, recruited by Kuwaiti employment
agencies from other nations as housekeepers and nannies, take refuge in local
embassies. As of Thursday:

- 172 women were in the Philippine Embassy, some with faces so swollen their
eyes are shut. Up to a dozen more runaway housemaids arrive daily. Three-fourths
of the women have told embassy officials they've been sexually assaulted. One
badly cut and bruised woman said her Kuwaiti boss had thrown her out of a
two-story window.

- 69 women hide in the Sri Lankan Embassy with up to eight more arriving daily.
As many as six sexual assault cases are reported each day and at least one
pregnancy a month, officials say.

- Several dozen women hide in the Indian and Bangladeshi embassies with up to 20
more arriving daily, officials said.

''What can we do?'' asks Wica Ramasinghe, labor secretary at Kuwait's Sri Lankan
embassy. ''There is no protection for these women. They are being treated like
slaves. We can't leave them with the Kuwaitis.''

Kuwaiti officials angrily deny the women are being abused - as they did when the
rapes were first reported by USA TODAY a year ago - and tell outsiders to butt
out.

''Kuwaitis under the constitution have the right to criticize us but not the
foreigners,'' says Interior Minister Ahmed Hamoud al-Sabah. ''Foreigners ought
not to interfere.''

Adds former planning minister Suliman Mutawa: ''There's an element of truth in
some of the mistreatment. But the rest is exaggerated, very much exaggerated.''

U.S. Embassy officials here say they're pressing Kuwaiti officials on behalf of
the women, and some U.S. military personnel have been giving food to those at
the Philippine Embassy.

The 685,000 Kuwaiti citizens long have depended on foreigners to support their
oil-rich lifestyle. The foreign worker population, 1.2 million before the Iraqi
invasion, is down to 600,000.

Psychologists can't explain the rapes and beatings, which intensified after the
Iraqi invasion. Some say they're the result of months of frustration and anger,
that Kuwaitis wanted to strike out at the Iraqis during the war but were unable
to. Now they vent their anger against those who can't fight back.

''Next year will be worse,'' says psychologist Fawzeyyah al-Durai. ''The people
still haven't gotten it out of their system.''

Others say the woman are just easy targets for sexual abuse because Kuwaiti
police rarely believe the women. Many women have told officials that they've
been raped in police stations.

Tuesday, an angry Kuwaiti woman stormed into the Sri Lankan Embassy compound,
grabbed her crying young housekeeper who had taken refuge there, and pulled her
out by her hair as two Kuwaiti police officers turned their backs. Other
housekeepers grabbed the woman's free arm but were slapped by the Kuwaiti woman.

Also this week, a Kuwaiti woman wrote to a newspaper complaining that her
husband is ''fond of servants,'' saying she has found him sexually assaulting a
woman. But the unidentified Kuwaiti said she will ''stand against'' the
servant's complaints.

''We have no rights here,'' says Salbazion Deaziz, 21, who was recently locked
in her room, then raped by her Kuwaiti employer. ''We were told this country is
rich and conservative from Islam, but they don't know how aggressive Kuwaitis
are. Never mind our money, just please send us home.''

That appears unlikely. Under Kuwaiti regulations, a woman can only return home
with the permission of the agency holding her passport and travel papers. So
far, the Sri Lankan Embassy has been able to negotiate the release of only 50
women - sent home at its own expense.

Sri Lankan, Indian, and Bangladeshi officials said this week they have stopped
recommending that their citizens travel to Kuwait in search of work. The Sri
Lankan Embassy displays pictures of a housemaid who was beaten and burned with a
cigarette and had her hair cut off by her Kuwaiti employer.

The bans follow a similar 1988 decision by the Philippines government to
prohibit agencies from recruiting women.

Kuwaiti agencies - illegal under a rarely enforced law - charge several thousand
dollars to supply a housekeeper. Agencies say they get around the Philippine ban
by advertising in Manila newspapers and radio for jobs in Bahrain or Qatar. Many
women arrive and then are told they're going to Kuwait, usually on two-year work
contracts for about $ 125 a month.

At least one popular Islamic priest, Abdul Aziz Habeeb, has warned Kuwaitis of
their ''hypocrisy'' - speaking out against Kuwaiti women raped by Iraqi soldiers
during the country's seven-month occupation but turning a deaf ear to charges
that Kuwaiti men are raping foreign workers.

''Some Muslims are very bad to the women and are trying to cover themselves in
Islam,'' says economist Abou Ali Jaffar, 30, who's trying to hire Filipino
housekeepers who are hiding in the embassy compound.

Their warnings are expected to do little. Foreign workers are bracing for more
violence after the stabbing death of a member of Kuwait's ruling family by a
Filipino housekeeper.

Lourana Crow Rafaeil, 44, is accused of murdering Sheikha Latifa Abdullah
Al-Jaber Al-Sabah last week in Cairo after she refused Rafaeil's request to
travel to the Philippines. Kuwaiti and other Arab newspapers are calling the
foreign workers untrustworthy, and even branding them as prostitutes.

''It is not safe to be in Kuwait anymore,'' Sarapy says. ''It is better to be
poor and safe.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EAR GRAPHIC; color, USA TODAY; PHOTO; color, Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY

CUTLINE: 'It wasn't like this before the war.' CUTLINE: WOMEN FEAR ASSAULTS

TYPE: Cover Story

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              179 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 29, 1991, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Teaching kids who are on the move

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 240 words


Ramona Esparza, 49, with daughters Esmerelda, 15, and Christina, 22, in Haywood
County, N.C. Christina dropped out of high school, now picks tomatoes. The
mother says: ''I don't know much - reading or numbers. But I want for my
children to have it.''

 Oscar Gamez, 8, was crushed under the wheels of a pickup in Mexico last
December. He was in a body cast during the three-day journey in the back of a
crowded van to North Carolina in February. He's still struggling to catch up
with his third-grade classmates. ''When we was coming to here, we had to take a
long trip. My head hurt and I couldn't sleep at night.''

 Teacher Tom Ratcliffe, left, with student Rudy Gamez, 6: ''The older kids have
given up on school and, in a way, school has given up on them. It's a terrible
problem.''

Tanna Timbes, right, has been teaching first graders in Haywood County for 20
years: ''They know they're a little different and it makes them try harder. Kids
pick up on that.''

 The daughter of a fruit grower who employed migrant workers for decades, Mary
Jo Daniel now teaches migrant children and other high-risk 9th graders at Bethel
School in Bethel, N.C. ''Migrant children are more at risk. They have a lot more
to overcome. First there's the stigma of being a migrant. What do you usually
relate to that - ''not bright''? The truth is they are smart enough. But we've
got to find a way to teach them. That not always easy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS; b/w, Jack Rose (5)

TYPE: Inquiry

See main story; Migrant life makes school even harder

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              180 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 24, 1990, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Migrant workers reel from freeze

BYLINE: Jeanne DeQuine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: HOMESTEAD, Fla.


Filiberto Hernandez carries two pieces of paper in his pockets, one an electric
bill for $ 81, the other his last pay stub for $ 40. He received it two weeks
ago.

''I have no work,'' says Hernandez, 37, holding up the bill. ''How am I going to
pay this?''

Hernandez is among many migrant farm workers - up to 15,000 in south Florida,
another 17,000 in south Texas - left literally out in the cold by the December
freeze that destroyed much of the winter vegetable and citrus crops.

For Hernandez and the others, the problem is cruelly simple: no harvest, no
jobs.

President Bush designated parts of Florida and Texas as disaster areas, making
farm workers eligible for special unemployment compensation.

Florida Gov. Bob Martinez Tuesday asked Bush to declare 14 more counties part of
the state's disaster area.

At the state disaster relief office set up in Homestead, a farming city south of
Miami, hundreds of unemployed migrants came with children and immigration papers
in hopes of finding help Tuesday.

Most of them are Haitian or Mexican.

''I have four children and my husband has no work,'' says Lilliane Louis, 25.

''We need Pampers and milk,'' says Felice Lopez, 33, rocking son Rocky, 5
months.

''It's a crisis, and there are not resources to go around,'' says Steve Mainster
of Centro Campesino, a migrant organization. Many migrants, he says, are
bewildered by the stacks of paper work they must complete before getting help.

''I need money to pay my rent, but I'm not sure what to do here,'' says Alfredo
Duran, 25, who left Mexico for migrant work here three years ago.

Many migrants pick tomatoes, cucumbers and squash in Homestead from October to
May. Then they move to Florida's west coast, then South Carolina, before
returning to Homestead in October.

Dade County officials fear the lack of work may mean migrants can't save enough
money to leave for other work sites when the season is over here.

''If we don't find a way to help them go, we may have to keep a roof over their
head until the season begins again in October,'' says migrant advocate Chappy
Pro of the county's South Dade Skills Center. ''We need to help them get back to
a normal routine.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Tom Salyer (Filiberto Hernandez); PHOTO; b/w, Tom Salyer
(Felice and Jose Lopez, son Rocky)

CUTLINE: HERNANDEZ: Freeze means 'I have no work.' CUTLINE: SEEKING ASSISTANCE:
Migrant workers Felice and Jose Lopez play with son Rocky as they wait to apply
for aid Tuesday at a Homestead, Fla., disaster relief office set up in an
armory.

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              181 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 19, 1990, Monday, FINAL EDITION

WISCONSIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 67 words

DATELINE: JANESVILLE


GM Corp. request for $ 8.25 million state grant to retrain 3,300 workers to
build trucks is among 13 being weighed today by state Development Finance Board.
... MADISON - 31 migrant workers who claimed in federal suit they lived in
shabby quarters, were not fully paid will receive $ 98,057 in out-of-court
settlement from tobacco farmer Wayne Jacobson, wife Janet of Whispering Pine
Farms Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              182 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 16, 1991, Monday, FINAL EDITION

'Bambi' is back behind bars

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 158 words


Lawrencia ''Bambi'' Bembenek - the ex-cop, escaped con and former Playboy bunny
- tasted freedom again for a few hours this weekend. But after being released on
$ 10,000 bond Friday, she was back in a Toronto jail Saturday night.

Bembenek, 33, who says she was framed for the 1981 murder of her then- husband's
ex-wife, fled Wisconsin's Taycheedah Correctional Institution in July 1990.

She and her fiance, Dominic Gugliatto, 35, were caught in October 1990 in
Thunder Bay, Ontario.

He was deported to Wisconsin and convicted Sept. 4 of aiding the escape. He
could be sentenced to five years in prison. She fought extradition and is
seeking political asylum in Canada.

An immigration official released her on bond pending a mid-October refugee
hearing, but she was ordered back to a jail when Wisconsin authorities filed a
new extradition request. ''It's just so unfair,'' she sobbed while taken into
custody. She was denied bail Sunday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, AP

CUTLINE: BEMBENEK: Out on bond Friday; back in jail Saturday

TYPE: Newsmakers

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              183 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 10, 1991, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

757 Haitians may have political asylum eligibility

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 219 words


The State Department said Monday that 757 of the 6,620 Haitian refugees picked
up by U.S. vessels since the September coup in Haiti have plausible grounds for
seeking political asylum. Department spokeswoman Margaret Tutwiler said 4,593
Haitians had been interviewed by Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials. Of those with plausible asylum grounds, 212 have been flown to the
USA to make their cases. The rest will follow shortly, Tutwiler said. The United
States plans to return most of the refugees to Haiti but has been prevented by a
court order issued by a federal judge in Florida. In the meantime, the refugees
are being housed at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba, in tents on a
abandoned airfield, and aboard Coast Guard vessels.

WHITE HOUSE VISIT: Nobel Prize-winning missionary Mother Teresa visited
President Bush and gave him an update on her recent charity work in Albania. The
10-minute meeting ''was very cordial,'' said presidential spokesman Gary Foster.
''The president appreciated her visit.'' Mother Teresa established five mission
clinics in Albania and hopes to open similar facilities in China, Foster said.
The 81-year-old Roman Catholic nun was in Washington to witness the induction of
27 nuns into the Missionaries of Charity order, which she founded in 1950.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, USA TODAY

CUTLINE: MOTHER TERESA: Visited with Bush

TYPE: Capital Line

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              184 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 30, 1989, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Arrest fuels her cause;
Salvadoran 'to continue my work'

BYLINE: Paul Clancy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 305 words


The former sewing factory worker is a mother of seven. Her husband died after
being beaten by Salvadoran interrogators, Kennedy Memorial officials say. She
has been in the USA for four years, speaking openly on human rights.

She has said: ''I am here on a mission to let people know what is going on in my
country.''

''She is the Sojourner Truth of El Salvador,'' says Rev. John Mack of the First
Congregational Church of Washington, where she was arrested. ''I could not be
more proud that she has worked alongside us.''

Tuesday INS agents entered the church building where CoMadres has an office and
arrested her. She faces an August deportation hearing.

Through four years of speaking publicly, she says, ''I never had any problems
... until yesterday.''

She'll seek political asylum, claiming her life and the lives of her family are
in danger.

''Her case is very strong,'' says her lawyer William Van Wyke. ''If there's any
justice, she'll win.''

INS regional director William Carroll says the agents acted on ''information we
received involving possible smuggling and illegal employment.'' The agents did
not have a warrant for her arrest, Carroll concedes, but says that's not
necessary under the immigration laws. Van Wyke says he's wrong.

The INS says she worked for pay. But Nettie Ruth Bratton of the Dumbarton United
Methodist Church, where Sosa has been given sanctuary, says she is not on salary
but the church supports her efforts.

''We have given her nothing in comparison to what she's given us. She's been
like a rock.''

Sosa says it is ''not my will to be here illegally,'' but says since CoMadres
members are consistently denied visas, she had no choice.

Now she's worried that her arrest may be ''an alert to all these people that
these kinds of actions are going to be more frequent.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Tom Roster, USA TODAY (America Sosa)

CUTLINE: SOSA: Salvadoran activist, in the United States, says it's 'not my will
to be here illegally.' She was arrested and faces possible deportation.

TYPE: Newsmakers

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              185 of 185 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 11, 1989, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Briefly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 107 words

He has non-speaking role as Customs agent in the film, most of which was shot in
Key West, Fla. ... New York's Julio Castillo, 15, who was accidentally impaled
on a wrought iron fence Saturday, was in stable condition Monday in intensive
care.

Former Arizona Sen. Barry Goldwater, 80, was in good condition Monday after
corrective surgery for arthritic knee and hip. He will be discharged in four to
seven days, Phoenix hospital officials say. ... Immigration and Naturalization
Service accepted Western Region director Harold Ezell's resignation Monday; Los
Angeles director Ernest Gustafson announced his retirement, effective Sept. 16.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newsmakers

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.
